EDM电磁信号法放电位置检测一维薄壁模型仿真
从理论分析入手，阐述了电火花加工 (EDM)中电磁信号法放电位置检测的基本原理。结合电路理论、电磁场理论及传感器的原理，建立了一维放电位置与霍尔效应传感器输出之间的理论关系，并在此基础上进行了数值仿真。

电火花加工 电磁信号法 放电位置 一维薄壁模型  

758 REPRESENTATIONS OF DISCOURSE AND
OF THE FEMININE IN HOMER’S ODYSSEY
Various strategies intensify the narrativity of a story. More traditional ones such as fables and epics tend to
have a more linear chronology and progression action, therefore a more complex narrativity. The more the
narrative subverts canonical elements of narrative such as time, space and duration, the less narrativity it
contains. Nonetheless, one should not confuse narrativity with complexity. As a matter of fact, novels with low
narrativity tend to demonstrate high complexity in style. Let us focus on some of these aspects understanding
Penelope as the protagonist.
Adventures in the Megaron
Penelope definitely plays a fundamental role as a character in Homer’s Odyssey. We can even perceive the
entire development of the narrative focusing Penelope as the “dramatis persona”. To understand the condition of
Penelope’s protagonism a parallel will be made with the
actions executed by her husband, essential figure of the
epic. Every great deed performed by Odysseus has an equivalent one executed by Penelope. We can say that if
Penelope is not the “dramatis persona” herself, she at least shares the same level of protagonism of the Greek hero.
It is true that Penelope’s dislocation is restricted to the Megéron, which in a Proppian perspective would
already unable the queen to be the protagonist, for she
must initiate a voyage that would suppose leaving the
realm of Ithaca, but I will consider the palace as a major
adventure place, where the mobilization of the character
requires a full detachment of the concept of the Megaron. A household does not have to be necessarily a space of
passivity and recollection. We will notice that Penelope becomes restricted to the gynoecium after the suitors take
over the Herkeios and other major chambers of the palace. Nonetheless, her cunning strategies allow the queen to
be an active character.
The focus of this action will be on the shroud mainly, although we do understand that Penelope parallels
Odysseus protagonism in various episodes. The table that follows compares the events that each character goes
through, clarifying their equal importance in the epic (see Table 1).
Table 1
Odysseus’ attack to the Ciconians makes him lose
many men and a considerable amount of his war prizes.
REPRESENTATIONS OF DISCOURSE AND OF THE FEMININE IN HOMER’S ODYSSEY 759
The suitors drain the king’s property while waiting for Penelope’s decision. The adventures of Odysseus with the
Lotophagous and Lestrygonians remind us of Penelope’s worries when Telemacus is abroad at Pylos and Sparta.
Odysseus in courted by Circe and Calypso while Antinous and Eurymachus seem to be the most articulated
suitors. Odysseus visits the ghosts from the underworld
facing a “katabasis” and Penelope confronts her internal
fears dreaming about the massacre of her pet geese. The Sirens’ songs are of grief as well as the songs of the
singer Phemius in the palace of Ithaca. Scylla and Charybdis synthesize Odysseus ordeals and the bow contest in
Book XX Penelope’s ones. All Odysseus’ soldiers die after their excessive behavior concerning the cattle of the
Sun and many slave girls lose their lives after betraying the queen. Penelope performs intense actions but the one
involving the shroud enhances her abilities with discourse and will be considered her major heroic trait.
The Shroud and the Trope
Penelope’s shroud is perhaps the most enigmatic object in Homer’s Odyssey. In the primeval stage of
writing, copyist wrote their texts on cloths, hence the Latin word fextere to describe something registered on
texture. From such lexicon derived the radical form
text-, present in various Western languages, usually
describing the act of writing itself. The fact that the product was literally written on a texture, and this texture was
a confection, contributed to the close relation between discourse and weaving.
In Penelope「s etymological background we see the
radical ivi) which is the Greek term for shuttle, bobbin
or distaff, as well as thread, wool or, even, fabric, cloth.
Such devices were very common in Mycenaean Greece
and are frequently described in Homeric narratives. Jenny Strauss Clay reminds us that the Ancient Greek names
have a very literal meaning. Considering this assumption, we would have something like: action-of-the-thread or
weaving-of-the-distaff as the meaning of Penelope. Although this a considered etymology, the most common one
points out that Penelope derives from nv8xowlatype of wild duck; quite plausible if we consider that the queen
of Ithaca is the daughter of the naiad Periboea.
Penelope’s name already shows the many nuances of the tropos in the story and we can observe that
metaphors are figures of speech immensely exploited
in Greek Epics. Understanding the complexity of the
metaphor as a narrative strategy, the author recurs to Paul Ricoeur’s acclaimed The Rule of Metaphor (2008) to
analyze the resourcefulness of the Homeric metaphor in
the verses of the Odyssey, concentrating specifically on
Penelope as a major representation of discourse and of the feminine.
Ricoeur sees metaphor in three distinct levels. First, he analyzes it in the works of Aristotle, mainly Poetics,
to study the figure of speech in its lexis, a “word level”;
Second, the structuralist linguistician Emile Benveniste
is contemplated to illustrate the metaphor in its phrasal level. Ricouer concludes his study presenting the
metaphor in a discourse level, its most complex and complete manifestation.
According to Ricoeur, Aristotle considers the metaphor as a transposition of a name to another name via
analogy. Within the metaphor we face the intricate concepts of displacement, extension and substitution of the
name. The major goal of this strategy would be persuasion, mainly in oral discourse and in tragic poetry.
to confirm a more enigmatic Penelope.
name was Ameirace, Arnacia,Arnaeaor Nauplia. Her parents
760 REPRESENTATIONS OF DISCOURSE AND
OF THE FEMININE IN HOMER'S ODYSSEY
We can observe the use of metaphors in Penelope’s action in the Odyssey, described here by the suitor
Antinous:
she set up a great loom in the royal halls
and she began to weave, and the weaving finespun,
the yarns endless, and she would lead us on...
The second verse literally says: “lifting a great loom”. The vertical threads of the loom are called othpoveg
or IlCrmnhtand are woven by the distaff, in greek kp6km or rnvnl. Through a bobbin, the lorov or 1610￠ (Greek for
fabric), is made’.
We can observe that the radical iaro-is also in the lexis IoTopw, meaning to narrate or tell. In a way it is almost
compelling to associate thread and story since both share the Greek radical, but the lexicon guides us to a more
intricate relation, the fact that Penelope is stalling the suitors through the weaving and unweaving of her shroud.
The importance of the ruse of the web is evident. If we consider that Odysseus was gone ten years fighting in
the war and took ten more to come back, the queen’s plan to stall the suitors should have lasted at least four years,
time necessary to maintain Ithaca in its amorphic state
until the original king was back. In a way Penelope’s
action is similar to the one performed by the epic singer, even though she is weaving on texture, something that
would remind us more of written discourse. Nonetheless, Penelope can undo her story and reinvent another one,
just like the exercise performed by the oral singer. To weave and to narrate have the same implication. The warp
and weft of the shroud deceived the suitors like the discourse in a fictional narrative, a simulacrum that can
become as sublime as its idea. The ability of weaving and manipulating discourse is Penelope’s heroic talent. She
is, as her husband, a polytrépos, a person with discursive tricks.
Allegorically speaking the shroud can be considered a representation of written discourse, subtly woven to
dialectally postpone the intention of the suitors. It reminds Odysseus deceiving the Cyclops. The hero tricks
Polyphemus with a lexical/semantical pun, taking advantage of the monster’s barbarism calling himself
“Nobody“(Ourlc).
Penelope also deceives the suitors with a representation of discourse, a texture that does not exist in fact. A
texture that will not be seen, it is a shroud promised for Laertes but its completion was never the intention. That’s
the story, the fabulation. Deceived by the weaving and unweaving of the Iloroc, the suitors never notice that the
real nature ofdiscourse is to be rewritten or reinvented’.
The reviving and the erasing of the tropos illustrate that
discourse can never be narrated or interpreted the same way.
It is observed that Penelope transcends the divine act of the Muses and of the Morai. The daughters of
Nonetheless the dialectical purpose withstands for the maids reported to the suitors what Penelope was weaving,
a horizontal position, but stood upright. The threads of the warp
REPRESENTATIONS OF DISCOURSE AND OF THE FEMININE IN HOMER「S ODYSSEY 761
Memory do not register their songs; they rely on the singer to tell them, while the Fates weave the story of every
being but cannot unweave their doing. Penelope demiurgically remakes what she weaves, narrates and unfolds
her story magically. This magic is, in fact, what maintains Ithaca in lethargy so Odysseus can reclaim it.
Probably the shroud had a theme. We can infer that by the scene containing Helen’s weaving in the Iliad.
Usually the shroud contained an illustrated theme related to heroic deeds. Although it is not mentioned in the
verses of the Odyssey, we can speculate about it. Being a present for Laertes, the web could have pictured his
accomplishment in the4rgoraxutica. Another possibility, the most accurate one, is that the queen was retelling the
voyage of Odysseus himself. Both of them are metatextual, but if we understand that the shroud’s theme is the
voyage of Odysseus, Penelope is, together with the singer, participating of the entire retelling of the narrative.
She does, though, undo what she is weaving, having to weave other versions, somewhat her actions are even more
sophisticated than the ones performed by the singer. Metaphorically the texture executes the same act as the oral
performance. What was woven would overcome memory, since it could be undone.
Many studies focus on Penelope’s discursive ambiguity. Katz (1991) reveals an accented dissimulation of
the character as does Felson-Rubin (1997), although more nuanced. The last author uses the Baktinian dialogic
model of literary studies to carefully look at Penelope’s interaction with other characters and verify her
boldness. Clayton (2004) emphasizes the queen’s use of weaving to demonstrate her cleverness, while
Papadopoulou-Belmedi (1994) takes the strategy of unraveling the shroud as a “representation of the
ambiguity of action through an endless reconfiguration of the shroud”, there by Penelope is metaphorically
remaking her own story. Penelope is shown here as cunning and dubious, but not in any way indeterminate. As
for Heitman in Taking Her Seriously: Penelope and the
Plot of Homer's Odyssey (2005), Penelope is seen as an
independent thinker always maintaining her integrity, although the character does apply her tricks enhancing
her indeterminate nature.
All of the studies mentioned here examine the acts of Penelope in a metaphorical sense. In Ricoeur’s
conception, it would be considered a metaphor in its discursive level. The philosopher understands that Language
has infinite resources that enhance discourse in creative ways. The elaboration of metaphors and creation of
narratives are genuine ways of vivid discourse confection.
The major debate in The Rule of Metaphor, centers itself “in the linguistic productive imagination that
generates and regenerates meaning through the power ofmetaphoricity to state things in new ways” (Dauenhauer
& Pellauer, 2011). Ricoeur (2008) points out that new
metaphors, ones that weren’t reduced to commonplace,
see referents in a new perspective. Metaphors transform
language and are not only rhetorical ornaments.
It is understood that the figure of language has a genuine cognitive importance and isuntranslatable without
remainder into literal language” (idem). The same happens to narratives and the act of narrating itself, where
literature can take meaning to another level.
Apparently the shroud takes a larger dimension, standing for the expression and voice of Penelope, if taken
in the perspective suggested by Ricoeur. The entire epic is an elaborate texture of the queen making a stand in the
gynoecium, confirming her heroic status in the narrative.
Since the beginning Odysseus is aided by the goddess Athena. This is not hard to understand in a
metaphorical sense. The goddess of wisdom would obviously be inclined to help the most intelligent hero. In a
way, all his cleverness is Athena manifesting her designated attributes. The same occurs with Penelope. It is
762 REPRESENTATIONS OF DISCOURSE AND OF THE FEMININE IN HOMER’S ODYSSEY
known that Athena is the deity that protects the weavers and craftsmen. Therefore, Penelope is also blessed by the
goddess?. The act of weaving, an exclusive woman’s act in Ancient Greece, refers to the ability of Penelope to
fabulate. The ability to master threads is equivalent to the one ofmastering discourse. Allegorically the shroud is
a representation of argumentation, dissimulation and misleading.
It is understood that Penelope transcends the Muses and the Fates, memory, and destiny, since she dominatesthe
thread in its completion, the crux inepic narrative. Threads confection nets, the original act of entangling; weaving is
the act of plotting, making points.Allegorizing the action of weaving via Penelope and associating it with speech and
discourse is a discursive metaphor, considered by Ricoeur as a powerful tool in literature.
To elaborate on the importance of metaphor in the narrative of the Odyssey, two incidental stories are
analyzed. Willcock (1998) usually understood these
stories as mythological paradigms that associated the
content of the story to something meaningful in the main narrative. These examples were inserted in a cyclical
form linking the metadiegetical text with the main structure of the epic. Willcock himself devised some
schematics, developing circular diagrams to illustrate his point.
Two paradigms involving Penelope are quite meaningful. The first one to be considered is retold by
Penelope herself, while she is explaining her suffering to
a disguised Odysseus. The queen of Ithaca elaborates on
the myth of Aedona, having the suffering of a woman and mother as a main theme. It is a myth of origin,
explaining the existence of the nightingale and how
its song is associated with sadness. The daughter of
Pandareus is envious of her sister in law Niobe, for she had had vast offspring while she bore an only child.
Aedona devises a plan to kill Niobe’s first born,Amareus. This hybris makes her assassin her own son Itylus by
mistake. After the excess, she prays to the gods to end her pain. She is then transformed in a nightingale, a bird
that sings, according to the Greeks, the name of Itylus himself (Iti!Iti!). In fact, the Greek word for nightingale is
aédon. The figure follows (see Figure 1):
of the gods cannot be contested.
REPRESENTATIONS OF DISCOURSE AND OF THE FEMININE IN HOMER’S ODYSSEY 763
Penelope begins describing how the sorrow of her
husband’s absence afflicts her. Such pain provokes her
weeping, the element that links the main narrative to the story. The cry of Aedona is sad and varied, very similar
to the crying done by Penelope. Weeping is the key word to leave the paradigm and come back to the homilia, the
moment that Penelope in conversing with Odysseus. The myth is a metaphorical description of the queen’s
feeling at the moment and helps Odysseus understand the suffering Penelope has been through.
Another significant story is the myth involving the adultery of Aphrodite and Ares. The blind singer
Demodocus tells us this adventure but, metaphorically, the example is associated with Penelope’s fidelity. Again
a figure is shown (see Figure 2):
interesting to see a story that tells one of the most remarking cases of adultery in Greek Mythology being
addressed to Odysseus. It is an allusion or a prolepsis to
the greatest of challenges that is yet to come. More than
regaining his kingdom dwells the fact if his most beloved wife remained faithful all these years. The myth also
enhanced Penelope「s perseverance and how her integrity is one of her most celebrated traits. The actions of
Aphrodite have a consequence and the paradigm illustrates how this can be disastrous if an ethos is not followed.
The story is a reminder of the delicate situation Odysseus may be facing at Ithaca. Penelope’s condition appears
in both these paradigms. The sad condition of Aedon confirms her depression and the story containing Aphrodite
and Ares celebrates one of the most valued traits of the demigod: fidelity.
Smaller units of the story metaphorically translate the major theme of the epic narrative. The story grammar
of the Odyssey can be perfectly understood as the maintenance of Ithaca as a realm belonging to the Laertiades
and issues including Penelope are major issues for the development of the story.
Penelope’s trope is what narrates the Odyssey, understood as a story about a great return, an epic of
Mine is a rugged land but good for raising sons—
And I myself, I know no sweeter sight on earth
Than a man’s own native country.
764 REPRESENTATIONS OF DISCOURSE AND
OF THE FEMININE IN HOMER「S ODYSSEY
We are aware that the hero only has a home to call his own because of his wife’s actions, metaphorically
weaving her husband’s return to his identity and being
the major theme of one of the most celebrated canons
of Western literature.
Conclusions
Hopelessly, the herostruggles justto understandthat itisimpossible tofully know everything and that you
must go through an intense adventure to notice so.
As for Penelope, her anagndrisis had already been
accomplished and she ensures this by mastering the thread.
The Odyssey is introduced mentioning the house of
Mycenae and of Ithaca. The attitude queen Clytemnestra
and her lover Aegistus had is brought to light by Zeus himself. Helen’s sister confirms her tragic destiny by
killing her husband with her lover and triggering fate to a sad disclosure: being killed by her own son, Orestes. On
the other hand, Penelope unweaves, unravels, deconstructs, and disconcerts her mantle, avoiding a tragic end.
She is the Ur-weaver of an irresolvable narrative that will originate a genre of dialogism and polyphony.
Betrayedby one of themaids, she eventually had to end her story, but her original intent was always to weave and
unravel her thread again and again.
