PBP压电双晶片驱动器力学特性研究
为了获得后屈曲预压缩（PBP）驱动器的力学特性,该文通过解析模型、有限元模型及实验验证对其进行了研究,3种结果符合较好。结果表明,PBP驱动器可达到10°的输出转角峰-峰值,3倍于施加同样电压的普通压电双晶片,设计空间增大。其一截频率达到178Hz,远高于普通微小型电动伺服舵机。该文可为PBP舵机驱动器原理样机的研制提供理论基础和实验方法。

后屈曲预压缩(PBP) 压电双晶片 伺服驱动器 增大转角  

PBP压电双晶片驱动器力学特性研究
胡凯明1,文立华!,李“双
(1.西北工业大学航天学院,陕西西安710072;2.苏州大学城市轨道交通学院,江苏苏州215131〉
携“要:为了获得后屈曲预压缩(PBP)驱动器的力学特性,该文通过解析模型、有限元模型及实验验证对其进
行了研究,3秋结果符合较好。结果表明,PBP驱动器可达到10“的输出转角峰-峰值,3倍于施加同样电压的普通
压电双晶片,设计空间增大。其一截频率达到178Hz,远高于普通微小型电动伺服舵机。该文可为PBP舵机驱动
器原理样机的研制提供理论基础和实验方法。
关 键 词 : 后 屈 曲 预 压 缩 (PBP) ; 压 电 双 晏 片 ; 伺 服 驱 动
器;增大转角
中图分类号:V19;TB381文献标识码:A
0 Introduction
Due to its advantages of the high bandwidth
none of these methods increase the electromechani-
and low power consumption, the piezoelectric ma-
cal coupling coefficient.
terial was predicted as the best choice for manufac-
With this background, Lesieutre G and Davis
turing the aircraft drivers, with the premise of o-
C proposed the Low Net Passive Stiffness(LNPS)
vercoming the defect of small strainsrl1、Recently
technique, which can increase the electromechani-
various methods to increase the displacement pro-
cal coupling coefficient by applying axial compres-
duced by piezo-drivers were proposed, such as me
sion force on the bimorph. When the axial com
chanical accumulation methodra , flexure hinge
pression force reached the buckling critical load ,
Received date:2015-05-07
theoretically the electromechanical coupling coeffi-
cient of the bimorph could reach 1, while that of
single piezoelectric patch was only 0. 34. This
pre-compression method can increase the end rota-
tion and output torque of bimorph actuators simul-
taneously. As a result, the design space of the bi-
morph, that is the available output torque and end
rotation, was increased greatly comparing with the
conventional bimorph.
Based on this finding, a new class of post-
buckled pre-compressed (PBP) bimorph actuators
was proposed by Barrett R in 2005!%, Then they
were used successfully as the servoactuators of mi-
cro rotor aircraft, small UAV, miniature missiles
and guided bullet et al'??, The end rotation of
PBP bimorphs was up to 土 6“, which is more than
three times comparing with the traditional bi-
morphs, and without sacrificing the output torque.
To further improve the output angle, one PBP
scheme with a connecting rod mechanism was pro-
posed by Hu in 2014, the simulation results
showed that the output angle could be up to 30“[91.
Besides, Hu et al had also studied the cantilever
PBP actuator[l21 ,which can be directly installed in
the inside of the rudder, and thus saving the interi-
or space of UAV significantly.
But above works just analyze the several forms
of PBP theoretically, in order to verify the actual
performance of PBP and fabricate its prototype, in
this paper, the static and dynamic characteristic
behaviors of PBP actuators were analyzed theoreti-
cally and experimentally, through the comparison
between the obtained solutions ,to validate the ac-
tual performance of PBP. This work can provide
experimental methods for the development of PBP
bimorph actuator prototype.
1 Analytical Modeling
1.1 Analytical static model
A schematic representation of a piezoelectric
bimorph actuator element is presented in Figure 1.
It consists of two piezoelectric sheets that are ad-
hesively bonded to each side of a substrate. The si-
zes along the 1%, 2?, and 3“ direction are called as
the width, length, and thickness of the element,
respectively.
Figure 1 Structure of piezoelectric bimorph
For the case with very thin adhesive layers,
the deformation of transmission loss between adhe-
sive and the piezoelectric layer can be ignored. So
the bimorph can be considered as a three-layer
composite beam. It’s bending stiffness EI can be
evaluated by
工一〕I『_=王;二c才:cZ)(一熹-2重筐__一Z[)2壹c′暑一誓〉卉_互骠(1
Where 5 is the width of bimorph, E. is the elastic
stiffness along the 1* direction of piezoelectric
sheet, E, is the elastic stiffness of substrate, ￠. is
the thickness of piezoelectric sheet and ￠, is the
thickness of substrate.
The moment, which is produced by the piezo-
electric effect with respect to the 1“ axis, can be
calculated by
Where A 二 dsi XE; is the strain in the 1* direction
which is introduced by the electric-field strength
P in the 3“ direction.
The curvature in the 1° direction induced by
the piezoelectric drive moment can be calculated by
Figure 2 The analytical static model for PBP
The loads applied to the beam consists of the axial
force F, and the external torque M,, produced by a
torsion spring with its torsion stiffness being K,. y
is the initial shape which is caused by piezoelectric
effect. The ultimate deformed shape 3 can be eval-
uated by
The end rotation can be computed by
[髻mn(y命五+参-
When M,, and K, is 0, 3 and 6 is bimorph’s end ro-
tation under free state,
Then according to the variation of torsion
stiffness, the relationship between the end rotation
and the output torque can be obtained:
M: 二 8(K:) , 区 。 (6)
1.2 Analytical dynamic model
The 1“ natural frequency of the analytical
model for PBP can be calculated by [8,11].
Where the shape function is W(x) =C X sin (ry/
Lx), and the average density is p= (2pct. + puts) /
(2t. +t).
2 FEM Model of PBP Actuator
In order to verify the analytical formulations
(5) and (7), the PBP’s FEM model was developed
using ANSYS software. The solid5 coupling field
element was used for these two layers of piezoelec-
tric sheets and solid45 was used for the substrate
layer. The FEM model is shown in Figure 3. The
width of the model is 10 mm; the length is 50 mm.
The total thickness is 0. 6 mm with the thickness
of each layer being 0.2 mm,
Figure 3 FEM model for the PBP actuator
The properties of the materials in the FEM
model are listed in Table 1.
Table 1 Properties of piezoelectric
bimorph materials
Actuator sheet Substrate
Material type Pzt Carbon fiber
Relative Dielectric constant eh /&o 4 400
Pzt charge constant ds; /(pC/N) —500
Stiffness E/GPa 40 10
Density p/ (kg/m?) 7 600 1 300
3 Experimental Setup
A test bed was built to check the static and
dynamic performance of the PBP actuator, as
shown in Figure 4. The PBP actuator was pinned
between an output shaft and a sliding shaft, allo-
wing axial loads to be transferred to the PBP ele-
ment. The axial force was regulated by changing
the weight.
To measure end rotation of the output shaft, a
metal slice was fixed on the output shaft as a re-
flector. The laser displacement meter (Keyence
LK-G80) was mounted to measure the displace-
ment A of the reflector in the x direction. Since the
peak-to-peak end rotation of the output shaft is
within 10°, it can be computed approximately by
where R is the distance between the reflector and
the axis of the output shaft,
To get the design space of the PBP actuator,a
lever rod was fixed on the output shaft, with the
other end tied to a tension spring as shown in Fig-
ure 4. The output torque can be calculated by the
stiffness of the spring, the deflection of the lever
rod and the length of the lever.
The data acquisition system is shown in Figure
5. The system was composed of an industrial con-
trol computer with Quanser quarc/Simulink hard-
ware-in-the-loop simulation system, a QPID data
acquisition card, a power amplifier XMT XE501-
A600. Al, a laser sensor and the test bed.
Figure 5 Schematic layout of data acquisition
4 Results
4. 1 Static Results
The QDA60-10-0, 6 bimorph actuators pro-
duced by Sinocera Piezotronics Inc were used as the
specimens in our experiments. The size of the
specimens is 60 mm X 10 mm X 0. 6 mm. The
length of the piezoelectric layer is 50 mm.
The end rotations of the actuator with various
axial forces were measured with ￡90 V, 0.05 Hz
sinusoidal voltage applied. The results are shown
in Figure 6. The free peak-to-peak end rotation can
reach 10. 13° with the axial forces being 20. 3 N,
which is three times bigger than that produced by
the bimorph without axial forces. The analytical
and FEM results are in good conformity, the maxi-
mum relative error is 1%. This indicates that the
analytical model can reflect the static characteristic
of actual PBP actuator accurately. Experimental
results are slightly larger than the numerical re-
sults. It may be caused by the inaccurate material
parameters in the numerical model and the axial
forces error between numerical model and experi-
ment.
Figure 6 Numerical and experimental results of statics
The design spaces were achieved by illustra-
ting the end rotation and the output torque with
different torsion stiffness, as shown in Figure 7.
The end rotation and output torque can be compu-
ted by the analytical model or the FEM analysis.
Then they are measured in the experiments with
the tension spring being one or two in parallel.
(5) ,FEM results and the experimental results are
illustrated in Figure 7. It can be seen that the FEM
results and the theoretical predictions of the output
torque and end rotation agree with each other very
well, with maximum misfit being about 2%. The
block torque of the PBP actuator is 1. 3 N 。 ￠m,
slightly higher than the block torque of the original
bimorph, which is 1 N ￠? em. The maximum end
rotation reaches 5.1 °, which is magnified 3 times.
As a result, the design space of bimorph actuator
is increased more than three times. The divergence
of the measured output torque and the numerical
results are relatively high. This may be caused by
relatively low values of the measured force and the
nonlinear behavior of the tension spring under very
low forces. The manufacturing errors of the spring
and the experimental fixture may also be one of the
reasons,
4.2 Dynamic Results
Exposed to different axial loads, the linear
sweep frequency tests of the PBP actuator were
carried out, with the amplitude of supplied sinu-
soidal voltage being 30 V and the sweep frequen-
cies ranging from 1 Hz to 500 Hz. The harmonic
responses of the displacement on the mid-point of
the PBP actuator are illustrated in Figure 8.
creases with increasing applied axial force. This is
expected since the equivalent bending stiffness
would decrease when an axial force is applied, as
shown in Eq. (7). The magnification factor de-
creases, and the damping ratio increases with in-
creasing applied axial force. From the phase-fre-
quency curve it can be observed that after the reso-
nance frequency phase lag reaches —220°,it may be
caused by the constant time delays in the measure-
ment loop.
The 1“ natural frequencies of the PBP actua-
tors under various axial forces are illustrated in
Figure 9. It can be seen that the theoretical predic-
tions computed by Eq. (7) and the FEM results
are in good correlation, with the maximum error
being about 1. 5%. When the axial force is less
than 10 N,the experimental results are lower than
the numerical results; while when the axial force is
larger than 10 N, the experimental results are
higher than the numerical results with the maxi-
mum error being 18%. This may be caused by the
inaccuracy of material parameters in numerical
model. Anyway, in general the experimental re-
sults conform well to the trend of the numerical re-
sults. In the case with the axial force being
20. 3 N, although the 1* natural frequency of the
PBP actuator drops to 178 Hz, it’s still much
higher than that of conyentional sub-scale servoac-
tuators due to the high control bandwidth of the
PBP piezoelectric actuator.
The static and dynamic behaviors of PBP actu-
ators are studied by theoretical analysis, FEM sim-
ulation and experiments. From the numerical and
experimental results, the following conclusions can
be drawn;
1) The numerical and experimental results
show that under an axial force, the PBP actuator
free peak-to-peak end rotation can reach 10. 1° and
the block output torque can increase slightly.
Therefore, the design space of PBP actuator can
increase more than three times of the original pie-
zoelectric bimorph. The 1* natural frequency can
reach 178 Hz, which is much higher than the band-
width of conventional sub-scale servoactuators.
2) The experimental results coincide well with
the numerical results, indicating that the test sys-
tem established in this paper can be used as a test
platform for the development of PBP bimorph ac-
tuator prototype.
《下转第401页》
Applied Physics Letters,2010,96(7) :1-3.
[2] SHI Chuang, GAN W 8S. Development of parametric
loudspeaker[LJ]. IEEE Potentials, 2010, 29 (6): 20-
24,
[3]李学生,徐利梅,陈敏,等.微型声频定向换能器阵
列指向性研究[JJ.压电与声光,2012,34(4):553-
560.
LI Xuesheng, XU Limei, CHEN Min, et al. Research
on the directivity of micro audio directional transducer
array[ J]. Piezoelectrics 匹 Acoustooptics, 2012, 34
(4) :553-560.
[4]“欧达毅,沈勇,安康.优化扬声器阵列的指向性与声功
率 级 [J]- 应 用 声 学 , 2008,27(2):125-130,
OU Dayi, SHEN Yong, AN Kang, Optimizing direc-
tivity and acoustic power level of loudspeaker array
[J]. Applied Acoustics, 2008, 27(2):125-130.
[5]林建,马建敏,庄子听.换能器组阵对声场指向性的
mil].噪声与振动控制,2010,3:55-59.
LIN Jian, MA Jianmin, ZHUANG Ziting. Influence
of transducer array on directivity of acoustic fields[ J].
Noise and Vibration Control, 2010, 3:55-59.
[6]李婷婷,王炳和,杨亦春.一种新型抛物线型阵列的次
声聚焦特性[J].声学技术,2009,28:79-82.
(上接第397页)
