中国制定“奔月”计划——10年后月球建小区
日前,在中国工业高科技论坛上,中国科学家透露了一个引人注目的人类重返月球时间表:中国国家航天局正和欧洲空间局合作,正式启动”空间探测双星计划”,2010年将在月球建立人类永久居住地。这意味着,10年后月球上将可能出现中国人的身影。

月球探测计划 中国制 月球卫星 国家航天局 双星计划 科技论坛 奔月 重返月球 中国科学家 欧洲空间局  

a, Speed of sound
c Blade chord length
Ly. Pressure fluctuation amplitude
M, Freestream Mach number
P Local air pressure
R Rotor radius
￥ Distance from vortex core
兄 Vortex core radius
t Time
t Non-dimensional time
V Freestream velocity
Vo Vortex swirl velocity
艺 Streamwise direction
y Vertical direction
X, , Vortex position
Crpp Tip path plane angle of attack
L Advance ratio
r Vortex circulation
D: Freestream air density
此 5 Blade azimuth angle
于 , Blade azimuth angle when vortex is released
0 Rotor rotational speed
1. Introduction
Helicopters are currently put to practical use, for
example, in emergency medical service, disaster relief
and surveillance mission. However, the noise radiated
from a helicopter rotor such as the BVI (blade-vortex
interaction) is current problem to be improved. The
BVI noise is dominant noise source of a rotorcraft
especially during descent and landing operations. BVI
noise is caused by interaction between the rotor blades
and their trailed vortices. The blade leading edge and
the blade tip vortices of preceding blades are almost
parallel to the blade’s leading edge, generating
64 Vortex Dissipation Due to Airfoil-Vortex Interaction
impulsive pressure fluctuations as shown in Fig. 1. The
high noise levels may prohibit rotorcrafts from
achieving wide acceptance for civil applications.
Several active blade control techniques to reduce the
BVI noise are under research and development. The
understanding of the BVI phenomena and accurate
simulation should be fundamental for such
technologies. In addition, the reduction of the
time-consuming evaluation is also key issue.
Many efforts for modeling BVI have been focused
on using comprehensive rotorcraft analysis codes [1, 2].
Comprehensive codes consist of engineering models
with respect to the structural dynamics, the unsteady
and compressible sectional aerodynamics, and the rotor
wake. The advantage of these codes is a significant
decrease in computational cost compared to the
coupled analysis of CFD (computational fluid
dynamics) and CSD (computational structural
dynamics). The comprehensive codes have also
demonstrated practical ability and precision in
simulating the aeromechanics characteristics of
helicopter rotors.
JAXA has been developing comprehensive code to
estimate the flow-field around a helicopter [3]. In the
comprehensive code, a hybrid method of CFD and
prescribed wake model has been developed [4]. The
schematic illustration ofthe hybrid method is shown in
Fig. 2. The hybrid method has the capability of
accurately predicting the aerodynamics and
aeroacoustics of BVI noise around a helicopter with
low computational cost. The prescribed wake model is
used for computation of the induced velocities, where
the position of tip vortex (green line) shed from
rotating blades is formulated simply based on
momentum theory and actuator disc assumption, while
the CFD method is incorporated for computation of the
pressure distributions on the blades which can be
sources of BVI noise.
However, the hybrid method tends to overestimate
pressure fluctuations on the blades and to represent
Fig. 1 Blade-vortex interaction represented by
pressure fluctuation with inviscid simulations.
Fig. 2 Hybrid method of CFD and prescribed wake
model.
fluctuation phases with some discrepancies in
comparison to experimental results as seen in Fig. 3.
According to the preceding study [4], there exists a
possibility that differences in the formulation of vortex
position between CFD and the hybrid method impact
the accuracy of noise prediction as illustrated in Fig. 4.
Besides, though Fig. 5 reveals that several BVIs occur
in the actual flow-field around a helicopter rotor, the
influence due to such several BVIs and the variation
with respect to vortex trajectory and wake structure
have not been investigated in detail.
In the current effort, two-dimensional CFD
simulations make the effect of several BVIs clear with
Vortex Dissipation Due to Airfoil-Vortex interaction 65
the hybrid method and experiment.
location and circulation. The paper is organized as interpolation method is incorporated to reconstruct
follows: Section 2 introduces the computational physical quantities at the interfacing face.
method applied in this study; Section 3 shows the The initial steady flow conditions around the
improvement of the wake model; Section 4 gives are chosen as representative of a typical AVI event on a
concluding remarks.
the structure and strength of a vortex core for capturing
AVI with CFD methods. In fact, the induced velocity
of a vortex totally dominates the variation of vortex
trajectory and the intensity of AVI and fundamentally
AVI is a short-time transient phenomenon. Hence, the
viscous effect less influences on the present
simulations to assess the variations of vortex center
location and circulation in terms of vortex structure
preservation.
Consequently,an unsteady two-dimensional flow
solver for the compressible Euler equation is used to
as it convects through the Cartesian grids. A modified
version of the SLAU (simple low-dissipative advection
upstream) splitting method [7] is implemented to
helicopter rotor. The vortex is introduced ten chords
66 Vortex Dissipation Due to Airfoil-Vortex Interaction
upstream of the airfoil from the leading edge of the
airfoil to check the effects of numerical diffusion
during the advection phases of vortices over a long
distance. The swirl velocity profile of the vortex is
prescribed upstream of the airfoil as a perturbation to
the steady flow-field. The swirl velocity distribution
can be modeled by the Vatistas Law [8, 9]. In this effort,
the Scully vortex model, which is the best vortex core
model according to the experiment, is used as the
convecting vortex, such as
The above-mentioned parameters are determined
from the experimental work of McAlister and
Takahashi [10] and the approach of using the
McAlister vortex data has been widely used before in
similar simulations [5]. The individual value of
parameters in the calculation conditions is summarized
in Table 1.
Simulations that lead to sequential AVI, which
consists of single vortex and two airfoils, are
performed to capture the features of flow-field and the
influences associated with several AVIs. The
simulations for a case where the single vortex passes
and interacts with the single airfoil show good
agreement with NASA’s experiments [5, 11]. In the
present study, as shown in Fig. 6, the simulations for a
case where the single vortex passes and interacts with
the preceding airfoil and with the following airfoil are
carried out by varying the parameter of miss-distance.
The miss-distance y, as defined in Fig. 6, is the vertical
distance between the airfoil leading edge and the vortex
center. This parameter significantly dominates the
noise intensity and thus, the variation of miss-distance
is utmost important when computing BVI noise. Two
different AVI cases (miss-distance y = 0.05 in strong
AVIand y = 0.25 in weak AVI) are considered.
The correlation between the vortex center location
and the vortex circulation is investigated with regard to
the variation of miss-distance. Spatial pressure
fluctuations resulted from sequential AVI are presented
Table 1 Calculation conditions for simulations.
Freestream Mach number (-) M,, 0.626
Angle of attack (°) a 0.0
Non-dimensional vortex core radius (-) r/c 0.162
Fig. 6 Configuration of sequential AVI comprised of
single vortex and two airfoils.
and discussed in order to assess the variations of vortex
center location and vortex circulation.
3. Computational Results
3.1 Flow Visualization before 2nd AVI
First, the flow-field before the 2nd AVI is focused on
to comprehend the influence associated with the Ist
AVI. The correlation between the vortex center
location and the vortex circulation due to the variation
of miss-distance is evaluated. Fig. 7 shows instantaneous
vorticity fields and vortex geometries in the far wake
(approximately 22 chords from the former airfoil). The
original vortex center location, where upstream vortex
is assumed to be convected without any AVIs, is
marked by a “x” sign. The 1st AVI results in that the
single clockwise vortex (contoured by blue) induces
the several intense counter-clockwise vortices
(contoured by red). In the present work, five vortices
are totally captured. Simulations account for that large
discrepancies between the original vortex center
location and the actual vortex center location are found
both in a streamwise direction and in a vertical
direction. As illustrated in Fig. 7, since the complex
vortex wake flow with several vortices induced is
predicted, the distance difference between the original
vortex center location and the actual vortex center
location both in a streamwise direction and in a vertical
direction is investigated to capture the behavior of each
vortex. The clockwise vortices are odd-numbered,
Vortex Dissipation Due to Airfoil-Vortex Interaction 67
(approximately 22 chords from the former airfoil).
while the counter-clockwise vortices are
even-numbered. The original vortex, which is
convected from upstream, is numbered as 3 in Fig. 7.
Furthermore, the variation of vortex circulation is
analyzed to evaluate the interference effect due to
several vortices. Results are discussed below.
The distance difference between for a case with and
without AVIs both in a streamwise direction and in a
vertical direction with regard to the individual vortices
is plotted in Figs. 8 and 9, respectively. The reference
vortex center location is a “x” sign given in Fig. 7. The
original vortex center, which is described in a red line,
is located backward in a streamwise direction and
upward in a vertical direction compared to a “x” sign. It
is seen that the convecting vortex decelerates due to its
own induced velocity when passing the upper blade
surface and moves upward by the effect of several
vortices induced. In addition, Fig. 10 indicates that the
direction (approximately 22 chords from the former airfoil).
09 | ;
人
miss-distance vic
Fig. 9 Distance difference of each vortex in vertical
direction (approximately 22 chords from the former
airfoil).
miss-distance ye
Fig. 10 Variation of each vortex circulation
(approximately 22 chords from the former airfoil).
strength oforiginal vortex circulation tends to dissipate
and y = 0.10). Thus, it is predicted that there can be
vortex dissipation associated with the influence of
several AV] phenomena.
Simulations result in that the several newly induced
vortices lead to the complex vortex wake flow during
the 1st AVL In short, it is necessary to modify the
68 Vortex Dissipation Due to Airfoil-Vortex Interaction
vortex center location and vortex circulation strength
that the hybrid method represents in order to improve
the capability of BVI noise prediction. However, the
current hybrid method considers single vortex wake
released from the blade tip. Thus, instead of reflecting
the individual vortex behavior. the overall influence
due to several vortices including the original vortex is
considered. The variation of the intensity during
sequential AVI is investigated and discussed focusing
on spatial pressure fluctuation.
3.2 Pressure Fluctuation Due to Sequential AVI
In the present study, spatial pressure fluctuation is
analyzed to capture the overall influence of several
vortices during sequential AVI. Hence, two observation
points are settled in order to obtain the pressure
fluctuation due to each AVI as illustrated in Fig. 11.
The non-dimensional pressure fluctuation amplitude of
Ly,; is defined as follows:
where, Ap is pressure fluctuation. The index of 1 and 2
as shown in Fig. 12 means the Ist and the 2nd AVI,
respectively.
Using the parameter of Lj, the difference of
pressure fluctuation amplitude during sequential AVI
is investigated and presented in Fig. 13. Pressure
fluctuation amplitude in the 2nd AVI is significantly
low compared to the amplitude in the 1st AVI. This
decrement in the 2nd AVI can result from the overall
vortex dissipation. The entire pressure fluctuation field,
which is given in Figs. 14-17, also indicates the
possibility that vortices totally dissipate by sequential
AVL
To clarify the impact due to the variation of
miss-distance or due to the dissipation of vortex
circulation, the correlation between miss-distance and
pressure fluctuation amplitude is identified. According
to the preceding study {11], it is clear that the relation
fundamentally shows the trend as presented by points
in Fig. 18. Based on this trend, the current correlation
Fig. 11 Microphone location to capture pressure
fluctuation.
3 rr SN essere 24RD C81 ht ee ARE SRRRARS SHS SRR Seren Fe eb |
-10 0 10 20 30
Vortex center location x
Fig. 12 Definition of pressure fluctuation amplitude.
respect to each miss-distance during sequential AVL
Vortex Dissipation Due to Airfoil-Vortex Interaction 69
Fig. 14 Pressure fluctuation field in the Ist AVI (y/c = 0.05).
Fig. 15 Pressure fluctuation field in the 2nd AVI (y/c = 0.05).
Fig. 16 Pressure fluctuation field in the 1st AVI (/c = 0.25).
Fig. 17 Pressure fluctuation field in the 2nd AVI (/c = 0.25).
00 bos
~1.5 -10 -05 00 05 10 15
miss-distance y/c
Fig. 18 Identification of L,, with the calculated value,
where y/c is the non-dimensional miss-distance and L,,/L,,,0
is the pressure fluctuation ratio normalized by the
maximum value obtained in the case of y/c = 0.0.
between the non-dimensional miss-distance of y/c and
the pressure fluctuation ratio of L./L.,0 is described
in red line in Fig. 18 and the equation is expressed by
The time difference between the initiation time of 1st
and 2nd AVI is investigated using f, such as
Based on Eq. (3), the pressure fluctuation amplitude
both in the Ist AVI and in the 2nd AVI is calculated,
respectively by estimating the miss-distance associated
with the original vortex location. Next the each
pressure fluctuation ratio of L,,,2/Ly,,1 due to present
calculation and due to estimation in Eq. (3) is obtained
in order to compare the difference of intensity in the
2nd AVI. Here, L;,,1 is pressure fluctuation amplitude
in the Ist AVI and L,,2 is pressure fluctuation “
amplitude in the 2nd AVI. As seen in Fig. 19, it is
identified that the calculated value is totally low
compared to the estimated value. In some cases, the
intensity in 2nd AVI is strengthened due to the
influence of newly induced vortices in 1st AVI. Thus,
there exists the effect of several vortices induced in 1st
AVL. To comprehend the possibility of vortex
dissipation in 2nd AVI, the entire variation of pressure
fluctuation amplitude caused by several vortices is
investigated using the calculated value to the estimated
70 Vortex Dissipation Due to
value ratio in 2nd AVI of L;,2 cal/L,,2 est. Here,
AVI due to the computational result,,Lpvi2_estf is
pressure fluctuation amplitude in the 2nd AVI
estimated in Eq. (3). Overall, Fig. 20 also indicates the
trend that the calculated value is low compared to the
estimated value. Finally, as presented in Fig. 21, the
time difference between the initiation time of 1st and
2nd AVI results in that the 2nd AVI occurs early
compared to the 1st AVI.
To summarize the results of simulations, it is clear
0.0 G3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.3
migs-distance vic
Fig. 19 Ratio of pressure fluctuation amplitude in Ist and
2nd AVI with the calculated value and the estimated value.
0.0东河
G 0.3 0.6 有 9 1.2 1.5
HHss-distasce ve
Fig. 20 Ratio of the calculated value and the estimated
value with the pressure fluctuation amplitude in the 2nd
AVL
pi 6.1 ph rere sen eens
乡【
亡二芸_()′2了'..eeCeesECPET。。
;:_…皇_(】4二覆2Y,E颂江江ee
as|.…熹
￡6e………….….…参
0.0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5
miss-distance We
Fig. 21 Time difference between the initiation time of 1st
and 2nd AVL
Airfoil-Vortex Interaction
that several vortices induced in the 1st AVI
significantly affect the 2nd AVI event with the original
vortex dissipated through the sequential AVI. Thus, it
is plain to represent prescribed wake mode] if vortex
center location and vortex circulation is expressed as a
single vortex considering the influence of several
vortices, since blade tip vortex is modeled as a single
vortex in this hybrid method.
3.3 Proposal of the Modified Hybrid Method of CFD
and Prescribed Wake Model
Modification of the hybrid method of CFD and the
prescribed wake model is discussed here. The physical
properties necessary to modify the hybrid method can
be provided by the spatial pressure fluctuation
amplitude and the initiation time of 2nd AVI. The
vortex trajectory in the hybrid method, which is
originally suggested by Beddoes [12], is assumed to be
an epicycloid curve and written in the following
equations:
x, = Rcos￥, +u (￥,-V￥,) (5)
力 =Rsin 九 , (6)
Hy = Veosay,,, | RS @))
According to the current work, it is necessary to
modify the vortex center location both in the
streamwise and in the vertical directions. The vortex
center location only in the streamwise direction is
focused and modified at the present step. Thus, an
offset value of Ax, is introduced for the simple ,
modification, such as
x, = Reos￥, + u (￥, 一 纠 ) - Ax, (8)
4. Conclusions
It is necessary to modify the pressure fluctuation on
blades and the fluctuation phase represented by the
current hybrid method. Therefore, the simulations of
sequential AVI, which is comprised of single vortex
Vortex Dissipation Due to Airfoil-Vortex Interaction 71
and two airfoils, are performed to consider and
comprehend the effects of several AVI events. In the
current effort, focusing on the influence associated
with several AVIs, the variation of the vortex center
location and vortex circulation, and the variation of
wake structure, the following conclusions are drawn
from the results presented:
(1) Several vortices are induced in the 1st AVI and
there exists the complicated vortex wake flow;
(2) It is necessary to modify the formulation of
vortex center location and vortex circulation with
respect to the original vortex, considering several
vortices as a single representative vortex.
