以软着陆循环办案促街面长效管控的工作思路
随着元旦春节临近，机动车贩卖水果的摊贩渐渐多了起来。这些机动车冬天卖桔子、胡柚，夏天卖西瓜、葡萄，四季做着生意，年底回原籍，于每年农历新年以后开始回潮，夏季高温天时达到顶峰。

软着陆 管控 循环 夏季高温 机动车 天时达  

1 Introduction
Flow around two circular cylinders in a tandem configuration can be found in numerous
engineering applications, such as chimney stacks, tube bundies in heat exchangers, overhead
power-line bundles, bridge piers and chemical-reaction towers, adjacent skyscrapers, and
offshore oil and gas engineering structures. A tandem arrangement of two circular cylinders is
a basic example of an array of multiple structures. Therefore, it is of important, fundamental,
and pragmatic significance to study flow around two tandem cylinders.
Most of the studies on two-cylinder configurations have been concerned with two
cylinders of an identical diameter (Ishigai
et al. 1972; Bearman and Wadcock 1973;
Zdravkovich 1977, 1987; Igarashi 1981, 1984; Williamson 1985; Mittal et al. 1997; Sumner et al.
1999, 2000; Meneghini et al. 2001; Lin et al.
2002; Alam et al. 2003; Sharman et al. 2005).
Zdravkovich (1977, 1987) identified three flow regimes for two cylinders of an identical
diameter in a tandem arrangement based on the center-to-center spacing ratio L/D (where L is
the distance between the centers of the cylinders and D is the cylinder diameter): (1) the
extended-body regime, where 1.0< L/D<1.8,
two cylinders are so close that the free shear
layers separated from the upstream cylinder overshoot the downstream one, and the cylinders
behave as a single bluff body; (2) the reattachment regime, where 1.8< L/D <3.8, the shear
layers shed from the upstream cylinder reattach to the face of the downstream cylinder, and
vortex shedding is observed only in the wake of the downstream cylinder; (3) the co-shedding
regime, where L/D>3.8 and vortex shedding from both the downstream and upstream
cylinders are observed.
A small amount of studies have been carried out to investigate the flow characteristics
behind two tandem circular cylinders of different diameters. For the ratio of the upstream
cylinder diameter (d) to the downstream cylinder diameter (D) greater than 1, Igarashi (1982)
observed four distinct flow regimes: complete separation, reattachment flow, bistable flow, and
jumped flow. Dalton et al. (2001) investigated the suppression of vortex shedding or hft force
on a circular cylinder when a smaller circular cylinder was placed next to it. Alam and Zhou
(2008) showed that a decreasing d/D would
narrow the width of the wake between the
cylinders and increase the time-averaged drag
force on the downstream cylinder. Zhao et al.
cylinder diameter. Both simulation results revealed that the relative position of the small
cylinder had a significant effect on hydrodynamic forces and vortex-shedding characteristics
of the cylinders.
In this study, the flow past two circular cylinders of different diameters was investigated
numerically. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of the two cylinders of
different diameters in the tandem arrangement on the vortex shedding behind the two-cylinder
system. The two-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations were solved using the finite volume
method. While the downstream main cylinder
diameter (D) was fixed, the upstream control
cylinder diameter (d) varied from 0.1D to D.
The studied Reynolds numbers based on the
downstream cylinder diameter were 100 and 150. In this study, flow in the range of
40< Re<200 was assumed to be two-dimensional and laminar. At a higher Reynolds
number of about Re > 200, the flow became three-dimensional and turbulent. From the
perspective of the main concern of this study, the two-dimensionality assumption is acceptable
for numerically understanding the wake behind two tandem circular cylinders at low Reynolds
numbers. The gap between the two cylinders (G) ranged from 0.1D to 4D. The effects of the
gap-to-diameter ratio (G/D) and the diameter
ratio between the two cylinders (d/D) on drag
and lift coefficients, pressure distributions around the cylinders, vortex shedding frequencies
from the two cylinders, and flow characteristics were studied.
2 Governing equations and numerical method
The two tandem cylinders considered in this study are shown in Fig. 1. The position of
the upstream cylinder can be uniquely determined by the gap-to-diameter ratio (G/D) and the
434 Yong-tao WANG et al. Water Science and Engineering, Oct. 2013, Vol. 6, No. 4, 433-445
diameter ratio between the two cylinders (a/D). The flow is in the positive direction of the
x-axis, and 6 is an angle measured from
the positive direction of the x-axis in the
counterclockwise direction, as shown in Fig. 1, where C, and CL are the drag coefficient
and lift coefficient of the downstream cylinder,
respectively.
solved using the finite volume method. The
temporal integration used in this study is of
second-order accuracy. The drag coefficient ( C,) and lift coefficient (CL ) of the downstream
cylinder are calculated as follows:
where 历 and F; are the total drag and lift forces, respectively, is the density of the
fluid, p is the fluid pressure, U is the free-stream velocity, and x and v are the velocity
components in the x and y directions, respectively. The first term on the right-hand side of
Eq. (1) and Eq. (2) represents the contribution
of the pressure, and the second term represents
the contribution of the shear stress.
3 Validation of numerical model
To validate the numerical model, a uniform How past a single cylinder with a diameter of
D for Reynolds numbers ranging from 10 to 300 was simulated. A rectangular computational
domain with a length of 100D and a width of 90D was used, as shown in Fig. 2. The cylinder
was located at the mid-width of the computational domain, and the distance between the
cylinder center and the inlet was 30D. The rectangular computational domain was divided into
173374 unstructured grid cells. The total number of nodes was 87 587. Fig. 3 shows a typical
mesh near the single cylinder. Structured four-node quadrilateral elements were used near the
cylinder circumference. In the rest of the calculation domain, three-node triangular elements
were used. A non-dimensional time step of 0.01
was used in all the computations.
In Fig. 4, the computed time-averaged drag coefficients for Reynolds numbers ranging
from 20 to 300 are compared with experimental data from Sucker and Brauer (1975) and
numerical results obtained by Sarkar and Sarkar (2010). The difference between the two
numerical results in Fig. 4 is small, and both sets of the numerical results agree with the
experimental data.
Fig. 4 Comparison of time-averaged drag coefficients between present study and previous studies
The Strouhal number (S9 is defined in terms of the cylinder diameter (D), the free-stream
velocity (U), and the oscillation frequency ( ) of the lift coefficient as
The Strouhal number predicted by the present model for Re = 100 is 0.167, which is also
identical to the numerical result from Baranyi
(2004) and the experimental result from Clift
et al. (1978).
4 Flow past two tandem cylinders of different diameters
The numerical model was then used to
study the flow past two tandem cylinders of
different diameters, as shown in Fig. 5. The effects of the gap-to-diameter ratio and the
diameter ratio between the two cylinders on
the vortex shedding were studied. While the
downstream cylinder diameter (D) was fixed, the ratios of the upstream cylinder diameter (d)
to the downstream main cylinder diameter
(D) were d/D = 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, 0.7, and 1.0,
respectively. The studied Reynolds numbers based on the downstream cylinder diameter were
100 and 150. Simulations were carried out for the gap-to-diameter ratio (G/D) ranging from
0.1 to 4.0. In all computations, a rectangular
computational domain was used, as shown in
Fig. 5. The downstream cylinder was located at a distance of 30D away from the inflow
boundary, and 70D away from the outflow boundary. Two lateral boundaries were located at
45D away from the downstream cylinder center. The dimensions of the computational domain
436 Yong-tao WANG et al. Water Science and Engineering, Oct. 2013, Vol. 6, No. 4, 433-445
(Fig. 5) were considered to be sufficiently large to minimize the boundary effects.
Fig. 6 shows a typical mesh near the cylinders for G/D = 0.4 and 4/D = 0.3. Structured
four-node quadrilateral elements were employed near the circumferences of both cylinders.
The rest of the computational domain was discretized using three-node triangular elements.
The circumferences of the downstream and upstream cylinders were discretized using 120 and
60 nodes, respectively. The total number of
nodes was 133 117 and the total number of
elements was 264316 for the case of G/D = 0.4 and d/D = 0.3. The mesh characteristics near
the two cylinders for other cases investigated in
this study were very similar to the case shown in
Fig. 6. In all calculations, the non-dimensional computational time step was set to 0.01. The
simulations were carried out up to sufficient non-dimensional time to acquire stable
calculated values.
4.1 Force coefficients
Fig. 7 shows the time-averaged drag coefficients of the downstream main cylinder for
Re = 100 and 150. For the purpose of comparison, the drag coefficients of a single cylinder are
also plotted in Fig. 7. It can be seen from
Fig. 7 that all the drag coefficients of the
downstream cylinder with an upstream control cylinder are smalter than those of the single
cylinder. Obviously, the time-averaged drag coefficients depend mainly on the G/D and d/D
values. That is, they are relatively insensitive to Re. The larger the d/D value is, the smaller the
Cp value is in the region of 0.1 < G/D < 2.5. In the region between G/D = 2.5 and 3.0, Cp is
almost constant at 4D = 0.1 and 0.3, but it suddenly rapidly increases at Q/D =0.5, 0.7, and 1.0.
Sakamoto et al. (1991) found that the reduction of the mean drag coefficient of the
downstream main cylinder is caused by the displacement of the separation point along the
upper surface of the main cylinder as the control cylinder is located in the front edge of the
main cylinder. This is also a part of the reason for the considerable drag reduction observed in
this study. Comparison of Fig. 7(a) and (b) shows that, when 2.5 < G/D < 4.0 and dD = 0.5,
0.7, and 1.0, the variation trends of Cp for Re = 100 and 150 are different. This may be due to
the fact that the drag force acting on a circular cylinder strongly depends on the Reynolds
number and turbulent intensity.
Yona-tao WANG et al. Water Science and Fnninaarinn Ort 2013 Mnl A Nn 4 422_445K AT
(a) Re=100
Fig. 7 Time-averaged drag coefficients of downstream cylinder for Re = 100 and 150
The maximum amplitude (Cymax) and the root mean square (CLms) of lift coefficients of
the downstream cylinder for Re = 100 and 150 are shown in Fig. 8 and Fig. 9, respectively.
The variations of Cymax and CLms of the downstream cylinder with different gap-to-diameter
ratios are similar at the same Reynolds number
in the range of 0.1 <G/D <2.5 and at d/D = 0.1,
0.3, 0.5, and 0.7, and the corresponding lift coefficients are relatively insensitive to Re. It is
noted that the magnitudes of CLmax and CLms remain significantly small (smaller than those of
a single cylinder) in the region of 0.1<G/D<2.5. However, in the region between G/D=2.5
and 3.0, the magnitudes of CLmax and Cis experience sudden jumps (larger than those of a
single cylinder) at d/D =0.5, 0.7, and 1.0, but they are almost constant at d/D =0.1 and 0.3. The
shedding vortex street is the main source
leading to the fluctuating lift force on the
downstream cylinder. Furthermore, the magnitudes of the fluctuating surface pressure, induced
by the shedding vortex street, strongly depend on the strength and formation length of the
shedding vortex.
- 一 -- Single cylinder ~~ —%-d/D=0.1 ~0-diD=03 _a—dD=05 —#-diD=07 ~o—d/D=10
more or less similar to those「 observed on the time-averaged drag coefficient (Fig. 7). In
general, in the range of G/D < 2.5, the existence of the upstream cylinder makes the mean drag
and lift coefficients smaller than those of a single cylinder. For small diameter ratios between the
438 Yong-tao WANG et al. Water Science and Engineering, Oct. 2013, Vol. 6, No. 4, 433-445
- Single cylinder -x-dqD=01 -0-diD=03 -A- AD-05 a= dD=0.7 —o—diD=10
diameter ratios between the two cylinders (4/D = 0.5, 0.7, and 1.0), they steeply increase in the
range of 2.5 < G/D < 3.0. In any case, Cp is smaller than that of a single cylinder. However,
CLmax and CLrms are much larger than those of a single cylinder at d/D = 0.5, 0.7, and 1.0, and
3.0 < G/D < 4.0.
4.2 Pressure coefficient distribution
The pressure coefficient (C, ) along the surface of the cylinder can be defined as
where p, is the pressure far away from the cylinder. Fig. 10 shows the distribution of the
pressure coefficient (C;) along the surface of the downstream cylinder with various G/D
values for d/D = 0.3 and Re = 100, including the results for a single cylinder. The magnitude
of the pressure coefficient becomes zero at 6=1412。 and =2192? , reaches its maximum
positive value at 6 =180° (the stagnation point), and reaches its maximum negative values at
6=962 and 6=264“ for a single cylinder.
One can notice that an upstream cylinder
significantly decreases C, at the front stagnation point (9 =180? ), and increases C, at the base
suction point (6 = 02 ). Therefore, effective drag reduction can be obtained if the upstream
cylinder is placed at the optimum location. For G/D < 2.0, a peak on the front side of the
downstream cylinder is apparent in each of the pressure coefficient distributions. It represents
the reattachment of the shear layer that separates from the upstream cylinder. These features of
pressure coefficient distributions are similar
to those in previous studies of Prasad and
Williamsion (1997) and Tsutsui and Igarashi (2002).
Fig. 11 shows the distributions of the pressure coefficient C, along the surface of the
upstream cylinder with various G/D values for d/D = 0.5 and Re = 100. One can notice that C,
of the upstream cylinder stays nearly constant at the stagnation point (# =180°), and increases
significantly above the Cp value of the single cylinder at the base suction point (8 =0°). The
smaller the G/D value is, the larger the C, value is in the region behind the upstream cylinder.
C, in the front of the upstream cylinder is almost unaffected by the downstream cylinder.
4.3 Characteristics of vortex shedding
The existence of the upstream cylinder induces significant variations of the mean drag
coefficient, mean lift coefficient, and mean pressure coefficient distribution of the downstream
cylinder. It is believed that these variations are the direct results of the interactions of vortex
shedding fom the upstream and downstream
cylinders. Therefore, an understanding of the
vortex shedding characteristics from the two cylinders is of great interest to both practitioners
and scientists.
Fig. 12 shows vorticity contours behind the two cylinders with different G/D values for
d/D = 0.3 and Re = 100. At this Reynolds number, the boundary layer around the cylinder is
440 Yong-tao WANG et al. Water Science and Engineering, Oct. 2013, Vol. 6, No. 4, 433-445
different modes, depending mainly on the gap-to-diameter ratio. Generally speaking, there are
two separate shedding processes from the upstream and downstream cylinders, and the
interactions between the two shedding processes will be weak when the gap-to-diameter ratio
is large. When the gap-to-diameter ratio is small enough, it is possible that the two separate
shedding processes will merge and the two cylinders will behave as a single object. Strong
shedding interactions are expected at intermediate gap-to-diameter ratios.
Fig. 13 shows instantaneous vorticity contours behind the two cylinders for roughly one
about the centerline of the two cylinders.
@G/D=10 (e) GID=12
(D) G/D=2.5 ( C/D=2.7
d/D=0.3 and Re = 100
442 Yong-tao WANG et al. Water Science and Engineering, Oct. 2013, Val. 6, No. 4, 433-445
(f)G/D=1.5 (8)C/D=2.0
G)G/ID=30 (k) G/D=4.0
of G/D for d/D = 0.3 and Re = 100. The spectra of the lift coefficient of the downstream
cylinder have one dominant sharp peak frequency. For small values of G/D, since there is only
one wake behind the cylinders, the power spectra have only one peak frequency. This confirms
the single-wake shedding mode at small gap-to-diameter ratios. For large values of G/D, since
there are two shedding processes behind the two cylinders and the interaction between the
shedding from the downstream cylinder and the shedding from the upstream cylinder is weak,
the lift is dominated by the shedding from the downstream cylinder and only one dominant
sharp peak is detected in the power spectrum.
Fig. 15 shows the Strouhal numbers of the downstream cylinder for 0.1<d/D<1.0 at
Re = 100, which is based on the frequency corresponding to the maximum power. It is found
that the vortex shedding frequency for the downstream cylinder is generally smaller than that
of a single cylinder (except for &/D = 0.5 and
0.7, and 2.5 < G/D < 4.0). For fixed values of
This clearly indicates that the main role of the upstream cylinder is reducing the stagnation
pressure on the front surface of the downstream cylinder by generation of friction between the
flow and the upstream cylinder. Obviously, the larger the upstream cylinder is, the larger the
magnitude of drag reduction is in the range of
G/D < 2.5. However, a large upstream cylinder
induces an excessively large momentum defcit in the How approaching the downstream
cylinder, or it may trigger flow instability, leading to turbulence in the boundary layers
developing on its surface.
Fig. 15 Strouhal numbers of downstream cylinder with different values of d/D at Re = 100
5 Conclusions
MNumerical investigations into the effects
of the gap-to-diameter ratio and the diameter
were carried out. The instantaneous flow patterns and other quantitative information were
obtained, providing a better understanding of the complex flow characteristics around the
cylinders in the tandem arrangement. The major conclusions can be summarized as follows:
(1) The shedding of vortices from two
cylinders of different diameters in a tandem
arrangement has different modes, depending mainly on the gap-to-diameter ratio and diameter
ratio between the two cylinders. Generally speaking, there are two separate shedding processes
from the upstream and downstream cylinders. The interactions between the shedding from the
two cylinders will be weak when the gap-to-diameter ratio is large. When the gap-to-diameter
ratio is small enough, it is possible that two separate shedding processes will merge and the
two cylinders will behave as a single object.
(2) The drag coefficient of the downstream main cylinder can be effectively reduced by
the upstream control cylinder. In any case, the existence of the upstream control cylinder
causes the mean drag coefficient to be smaller than that of a single cylinder. In the range of
G/D < 2.5, the drag coefficient decreases with
the increase of d/D. For small diameter ratios
between the two cylinder (4/D = 0.1 and 0.3),
the drag coefficient stays nearly constant. For
large diameter ratios between the two cylinder (a/D = 0.5, 0.7, and 1.0), the drag coefficient
steeply increases with the increase of G/D in the range of 2.5 < G/D < 3.0. The effects of the
upstream cylinder on the lift coefficient of the downstream cylinder are more or less similar to
those on the mean drag coefficient. The maximum amplitude and root mean square of lift
coefficient of the downstream cylinder are much larger than those of a single cylinder for
d/D=0.5,0.7,and 1.0,and 3.0 < G/D < 4.0.
(3) The upstream cylinder significantly reduces the pressure coefficient of the
downstream cylinder in the vicinity of the front of stagnation point with a secondary effect of
increasing the pressure at the base suction point. The pressure coefficient of the upstream
control cylinder stays nearly constant at the stagnation point and increases significantly at the
base suction point.
(4) The vortex shedding frequency of the
downstream cylinder is generally smaller than
that of a single cylinder (except for d/D = 0.5 and 0.7, and 2.5 < G/D < 4.0). St steeply
increases with the increase of G/D for 2.5 < G/D < 3.0 and d/D =0.5, 0.7, and 1.0, where the
drag and lift coefficients also rapidly increase.
