共轴旋翼悬停测力实验与数值模拟
为改善单旋翼的拉力不足的问题,对具有前后对称翼型的共轴旋转机翼,进行悬停测力实验,探索了单、双旋翼的最佳安装角。通过三维非定常旋翼绕流的CFD数值模拟,分析了上下旋翼之间的相互干扰影响。研究发现,受上旋翼下洗流影响,下旋翼的最佳安装角远大于单旋翼最佳安装角;共轴旋翼间的气动干扰使下旋翼拉力减小比上旋翼拉力减小程度大。实验表明,同转速双旋翼最大拉力超过单旋翼最大拉力的两倍,表明在特定情况下,双旋翼能改善单旋翼的拉力不足的缺点。

共轴旋转机翼 悬停实验 CFD 非定常流动 拉力  

Introduction
During the War of Resistance to Japan (1937-45), many films, operas, and stage
plays,especially those with historical
Japanese-occupied “orphan island“Shanghai.! Women warriors such as Hong
1 Edward Gunn, Unwelcome Muse: Chinese Literature in Shanghai and Peking, 1937-1945,
149.
themes, featured female leads in the
and renowned historical beauties such as Diao Chan and Ll Xiangjun foiled the
incompetence of male characters in troubled historical times.
This phenomenon, in a “total war” situation nationally and a local context of
of Chinese society encountering the colonial Other. I suggest that the war
the nation in later literary and cultural practices.
War”
In a recent article on affect theory, Ben Anderson delineated the relationship
society.
object of state propaganda practice.
at a stadium: The audience’s shouting, cursing, tramping, and applauding
certainly influence each other’s physical
and emotional response to the game. As
Anna Gibbs describes it, “Bodies can catch feelings as easily as catch fire: Affect
structure of the national imagination.
By any measure, the War of Resistance to Japan amounted to a “total war”
situation in China, and morale was certainly an object for the state and cultural
elites to mobilize. However, the state and the independent intellectuals seemed to
have employed different strategies to
homogeneous national collectivity in the hinterland, the intellectuals in
Japanese-occupied Shanghai differentiated the populace into the courageous and
8 Anna Gibbs, “Contagious Feelings: Pauline Hanson and the Epidemiology of Affect,” 1.
is veiled or erased.
questions such as modernity, the spiritual health of the nation, and anti-
women, and women’s concerns were
ideology” and “male-as-norm.”
Japanese and satisfied the pleasure-seeking desire of audience.
Second, it could be seen as an involuntary projection of trauma, of intense
existence. This danger was most clearly manifested in the terrorism that
by another does not mean that an affect simply passes or ‘leaps’ from one body to
effect of the affect is conditioned by how we are “programmed” psychologically
and emotionally in the first place. For many Chinese who had been imbued with
strong sentiments of nationalism and patriotism, personal terror could only evoke
shame and anger. Shame because the gesture of symbolic rape reminded one of
his inability and the rape of the nation by the Japanese; anger because many male
Shame.” 78.
the context mn which the writer lived and wrote.” Shame and anger, as both
figures, as a result, took the central stage and embodied national imagination in
a romantic and family setting.
that puzzled him:
Given the highly patriarchal norms
of Chinese society in the mid-twentieth
century, it is striking to see the extent to which cultural decency, wartime
strength, and anticolonialism are
gendered female in these films, all
of which were written and directed
by men. Similarly, it is surprising to see
the extent to which cultural degeneration, weakness under wartime
conditions, and the failure to resist
While Pickowicz did not provide an explanation for this occurrence, it seems
reasonable to assume that postwar Shanghai cinema continued the wartime
practice, and two powerful emotions still motivated such gendered representation
in male producers 一 shame and anger
Female Leads: Writing Shame and Anger
There was a long established view among modern Chinese intellectuals that
Chinese culture was feminine compared to Western counterparts. In fact, the
stigma of being effeminate, and thus not fully “civilized,” had registered in the
intellectuals’ consciousness since the
late Qing period,and motivated their
practice in pursuing modernity and building a modern nation. Scholars have
progressed from ‘ignorance to knowledge, and from rude to civilized manners,’
the position of women improved accordingly, from being virtual slaves of men to
society.
signified the “backwardness” of Chinese
Japanese peopie「s enthusiasm for the
Guo Moruo stated that, compared with Western men, Chinese men were almost
more precisely, the discovery of a gendered quality in Chinese culture under the
man. As a result, intellectuals lamented,
required to confront Western militant
ds Cullurdl UDIOVOKCIS, WW UIddDOCUL 1idllullidl 11dawd ClllUUUICU 1H xULLLAEBSE L alll
“failure”: “The articulations of Chinese
self-awareness that thrived not on affirmation but on self-reproach and
incompetence and betrayal; on the other hand, they were reintroduced in family
aiming to make a profit and appealing to the indecent tastes (diji quwei) of the audience.
H Xiangjun: Shameful Love
In the late 1930s, Ouyang Yugian wrote
a Peking opera Peach Blossom Fan and
a film script Mulan Joins the Army. While both stories originated from classical
woman warrior Hua Mulan nonetheless
Ouyang’s scripts, both women stand up
country. The author seems to suggest that, for a woman, there is nothing more
pride than fighting for your country.
Peach Blossom Fan was adapted
from the early Qing dramatist Kong
Shangren’s opera of the same title. For
the popularity of the story, the play has
and loyalty to the country. Consequently, it is more of a political drama than a
romance saga.
Hou Chaozong is an influential leader of the late Ming political association,
Fu She, literally Revival Society, which is constituted by righteous literati
scholars who hope to revitalize the Ming from its decline and who take the
former dominant eunuch Wei Zhongxian and his followers as their enemies.
During his temporary stay in Nanjing, Hou asks his artist friend Yang Wencong
to introduce him to a high-class brothel
well known for the celebrated courtesan
3 Ouyang Yuqian, Preface to Taohua shan (Peking Opera), 1-2.
人 d ave
Xiangjun’s precious first time to fulfill his desire. To his delight, Yang Wencong
offers to take care of the dowry, which, as later revealed to both Xiangjun and
Hou, comes from Ruan Dacheng, former follower of the eunuch Wei Zhongxian.
scholars despise him. Trapped in this
awkward situation and saves his reputation as an untainted scholar. Xiangjun
She friends, forcing Hou into exile. The young couple is thus separated by the
unavoidable political turmoil: The vulnerable Southern Ming regime,while
matchmaker Yang Wencong and move
2 Haiyan Lee, Revolution of the Heart: A Genealogy of Love in China, 1900-1950, 68.
Chinese, while Hou Chaozong mirrored
wartime.
the submissive collaborators during the
3 Ibid., 176.
forward.
36 Liu Zhijian, “Ye tan Hou Fangyu de ‘chujia’ wenti,” 335.
a reclusive life after he reluctantly took
Hua Mulan: The Return of the Foundational Family
de zhenshi dao yishu de zhenshi.“
people. She was obviously attractive, for
L5LULLNLLE vilallll 命 PSECE5 WW YUYCOULIDLUL
nationalistic discourse. As Shengqing Wu astutely asserted, the idealized and
nation bound private desire and passion
masculinized woman, hence, at once continues the theme of women’s
mobilization whenever needed.
弛 Ibid.,, 64.
LLIOLLE ULE 巳 L 巳 , _，c_′}】l-】lll己 CIUVLIVIDILL 1H UL
women embody “a certain tension or
Zhou Yibal, the ending is rather different.
The Proliferation of Images of Zhen Fei
campaign is finished. * Zhou’s play,
It is nothing unique in wartime historical representation for writers to alter an
image of a historical personality or freely single out a time period in a hero’s life
to eschew the tragic or unfavorable ending of an event. Ouyang Yugian’s
portrayal of Hou Chaozong and Zhou Yibai’s depiction of the emperor in
Mulan’s story both demonstrate the ideological contingency in a discursive
historical moment that obscures historical truth. In the name of “borrowing
history to mirror reality,” intellectuals favored the present over the past, a literary
practice that is most notably theorized
by Guo Moruo who, in 1942, made an
symptomatic artifacts of the war period, through which we could view the
contemporary public sphere of heterogeneous concerns.
In this light, whereas Zhou challenged the legitimacy of a regime (also with
shame and anger), Ouyang Yudian emphasized the function of family and the
centrality of women in a foundational family. “Foundational family” is a term
tradition of love triangles that typically lead to tragic endings, Sommer observed,
token, the union or separation between the lovers in Ouyang Yudqian「“s plays also
projects the ultimate blueprint of the
nation, in which productive romance
functions as the imaginary force that grounds the (ideal) nation. Whereas Li
Xiangjun’s rejection of the family is
to defy the immoral husband and the
illegitimate ruler, Mulan’s marriage suggests a foundational family that produces
quality subjects for the nation. In wartime Shanghai, Mulan’s grand reunion
could be a mesmerizing pill to brighten
the suffocating atmosphere, or to satisfy
the much-needed “pleasure principle”
against outside oppressive terror. Yet
perhaps its success for the most part is evidence of the positive mobilizing effect,
the rhetorical function of a historical tale—that if everybody, including women,
national defense and nation building.
Conclusion
In the “total war” situation of the War of Resistance to Japan while the survival
of the “nation” was at stake, how may we understand the gendered representation
the “masculine” portrayal of resistance in the unoccupied hinterland?
argues that, whereas the Chinese state
effectively targeted the morale of the
public as a site of activity to construct a
rekindling the shameful observation of earlier intellectuals that Chinese culture
was effeminate in comparison with the West.
Moreover, the centrality of women
manifested in the film Mulan Joins the Army. As an ideal combination of
foreground of national defense, prefiguring the more masculinized women
revolutionaries in later literature to join the collective effort of national building.
