具有值机功能的轨道交通机场线车站布局方案
近年来,随着国内机场客流量的高速增长及城市轨道交通建设步伐的加快,各大、中城市也开启了轨道交通机场线的建设.结合国内外机场提前值机的概念,以西安北客站至咸阳国际机场的轨道交通机场线为例,分析了值机客流的特征,研究了具备提前值机功能的轨道交通机场线车站布局的3个可行性方案,并指出了实现机场功能外移所存在的问题.

轨道交通车站 机场功能外移 提前值机 布局方案  

Mankind has been increasingly deepening its
knowledge about the Moon though various exploration
activities in the past 50 odd years. During the 18 years
from 1958 to 1976, the United States and the former
USSR were the first in the world to initiate lunar
exploration projects, including the “Luna” and “Apollo”
missions. People were sent to the Moon and gathered
tremendous amounts of samples, data and information
regarding the landform, geological setting, material
composition, internal structure and surface environment of
the Moon. A series of lunar landform, geological and
tectonic maps were produced in succession (Ouyang,
2005). The U. S. Geological Survey (USGS) completed a
set of lunar geological maps of 44 quadrangles at a scale
of 1:1 M, and on this basis completed a series of 1:5 M-
scale geological maps, including Geologic Map of the
Near Side of the Moon (Wilhelms and McCauley, 1971),
Geologic Map of the West Side of the Moon (Scott et al.,
1977), Geologic Map of the East Side of the Moon
(Wilhelms and El-baz, 1977), Geologic Map of the Arctic
Region of the Moon (Lucchitta, 1978), Geologic Map of
the Antarctic Region of the Moon (Wilhelms, 1979),
Geologic Map of the Central Far Side of the Moon
(Stuart-Alexander, 1978), and finally the Geologic Atlas
of the Moon. Among the lunar maps accomplished by the
former USSR are mentioned mainly the sketch map of
major tectonic units on lunar surface (1:30 M), tectonic
map of the global Moon and lunar landform map.
Moreover, during this period the USGS compiled a set of
lunar geological maps of some typical regions or Apollo
landing sites on 6 kind of large and medium scales----
1:250000, 1:100000, 1:50000, 1:25000, 1:10000 and
1:5000 (Ulrich,1969; Pohn, 1971; Howard, 1971; Howard,
1975; Titley and Trask, 1969; Rowan, 1971; Cannon and
Rowan, 1971). These maps manifest the progress of lunar
exploration and related researches of mankind. The period
from 1976 to 1994 is a stage for data processing and
digestion, analysis and comprehensive study of acquired
information and materials. Lunar geological mapping at
this stage placed its emphasis on large-range integrated
study and compilation of small-scale geological maps.
Since 1994, the United States started a new program of
returning back to the Moon and launched
“Clementine“(1994) and “Lunar Prospector“ (1998)
another around of 1:2.5 M-scale geological mapping
project at the Annual Meeting on Planetary Geological
Mapping in 2002 and planed to implement the mapping
program based on unified scale, projection, mapping
standard and nomenclature. In this program, the global
Moon surface was divided into 30 quadrangles (Fig. 1).
The program factually began in 2004 and geological
mapping of four quadrangles is presently under way,
including Marius Quadrangle (LQ-10), Copernicus
Quadrangle (LQ-11), Arctic Region (LQ-29),Antarctic
Region (LQ-30), and meanwhile the draft or preliminary
results were obtained for some of the quadrangles (Gaddis
et al., 2006).
Based on the CCD image, Imaging Interferometer(IIM)
data, DEM data, contents of minerals and elements
2010), a study for 1:2.5M-scale digital geological mapping
around Sinus Iridum and Mare Imbrium was conducted.
geological mapping (1:2.5 M) of the Sinus Iridum
procedure and method for lunar geological mapping
chronology and lunar evolution history, so as to lay a
foundation for digital geological mapping of the global
Moon and future compilation of geological maps of other
planets. This study will also provide data and materials for
selecting the landing site of Chang E-III in the 3rd-phase
lunar exploration project of China. This is of great
significance for the future manned Moon mission, site-
selection and construction of working bases on the Moon
surface.
2 Regional Geological Setting
The area for the geological mapping ofthe Sinus Iridum
rocky distribution, three types of regional geological
landforms are defined: (1) Mare basalt plains, including
mainly Sinus Iridum, Mare Imbrium, Oceanus
Procellarum, Sinus Roris and Mare Frigoris; (2) Crater
accumulative hills, including mainly the region from
Montes Jura in the northwest of Sinus Iridum in the
central part of the quadrangle to Montes Alpes in the east;
(3) Terra plagioclase plateaus, which mainly refers to the
terra region in the northern quadrangle. Besides, there are
more large impact craters in the quadrangle, such as
craters Plato, Harplus, Sharp, Mairan, Bianchini, South, J.
Herschel and Fontenelle, which constitute the major
circular geological structure of the study area. The image
synthesized with the 2c-class data of Chang’E-I CCD
image was used as the base map for the geological
mapping (Fig. 2). The spatial resolution of the image is
120m. Multi-stage geological events took place in the pre-
Imbrian, Imbrian, Eratosthenian and Copernican periods in
the study area. The division of strata or geological bodies
reflects the topographical features (crater, et al), types of
accumulative materials (ejecta, et al), relations of each
other’s coverage and spectral features of different regions.
The geological times of strata and geological bodies
include the pre-Imbrian (PI), consisting of the pre-
Nectarian(PN) and the Nectarian (N); the Imbrian (I),
consisting of the Early Imbrian (I;) and Late Imbrian (I,);
the Eratosthenian (E) and the Copernican(C). This
typically summarizes the evolutional history of the lunar
regional geology (Table 1).
performed high-precision zircon SHRIMP dating for the
samples of impact melting debris in front of the southern
part of the study area obtained by Apollo 12, 14 and lunar
meteorites SaU169, and accurately ascertained the ages of
some early events on the Moon. For instance, the age of
strong impact event of Imbrian Period is 3.92 Ga. This
conclusion was commonly accepted at the 32nd Lunar and
Planetary Science Conference in Huston in 2010, so as to
change the traditional cognition among scientists in the
world that this event occurred at 3.85 Ga, thus making a
significant contribution to the study of the early lunar
evolution history (Liu et al., 2011). In the same way, SIMS
Pb-Pb dating was conducted on zircons in impact melt
breccia and fine-grained matrix of the most K-rich KREEP
of lunar meteorite SaU 169 by Lin et al. (2012), The
comprehensive petrographic, mineral chemistry and SIMS
study analyses consider the main age peak at 3921+3 Ma
and the smaller one at 4016+6 Ma represent the latter
crystallizing age of KREEP magma and the age of a
catastrophic shock event in Nectarian. As a sequence, this
age (39.2 Ma) was adopted as the lower limit of the
Imbrian Period for the geological mapping in this study
(Table 1).
3 Lunar Impact Craters and its Structure
3.1 Types of impact craters
Impact craters are one of the major ring structures on
the Moon, the study of the development, distribution, size,
form and structure of the impact craters are of the
important significance for the lunar original and
evolutional history (Jin et al., 2009; Yue et al, 2006). The
craters in this mapping quadrangle can be basically
divided into 7 type and 11 subtypes according to their
forms, quantity and preservation status of filling materials.
(1) Bowl-shaped crater Small and very small bowl-
shaped craters with a diameter ranging from 15 to 20 km,
formed mainly from the Copernican to the present.
(2) Central peak crater Craters with a small peak at
the center, which have the following groups in
consideration of the rocky types constituting the peaks.
(a) Fallback accumulative central peak crater
This kind of craters has their small peaks composed of
accumulative ejecta and fallback. They are mostly small
craters with rounded peaks and rough slopes.
(b) Meteorite relict central peak crater
This kind of craters has small peaks in the central part
of them composed of meteorite relicts resulting from
meteorite impact. They are mostly medium-sized or larger
with acute peaks, smooth slopes and high albedo.
(3) Multi-ring crater These craters are composed of
two ring-like fault zones. They are mostly huge “ancient
lunar craters” formed in the Imbrian or earlier with a
diameter larger than 300 km. Mare Imbrium can be an
example of such huge craters.
(4) Radial crater Craters with evident radial ejecta
outside. They were mostly “new lunar craters” formed in
the Copernican or later.
(5) Filled crater Craters intruded by or filled up with
late-stage basalt or plagioclase magma. They are basically
divided into the following groups according to the
quantity of the fillings.
(a) Full-filled crater
The central part and some fault block accumulation
belts of the crater are fully filled up with basalt or
plagioclase magma, which can be clearly distinguished:
the former is relatively dark while the latter light in color
(Figs. 3, 4).
(b) Nearly full-filled crater
The crater is fully filled up with only dike-like
accumulation belts being preserved.
(c) Half-flled crater
The centre of crater is partly filled up with basalt or
plagioclase magma (Fig. 5).
(d) No-filled crater
No filling is clearly observed in the central part of the
crater. Such craters are mostly late bowl-shaped and very
small in size (Fig. 5).
(6) Incomplete crater Crater partially altered or
assimilated by basalt magma with incomplete shape (Fig.
5).
(7) Residual crater Craters largely altered or assimilated
by basalt magma with features ofrelicts (Fig. 5).
3.2 Structure, features and genesis of crater
accumulation
3.2.1 Classification of crater accumulation
Analysis of accumulations in lunar craters shows that
accumulative materials of impact craters can be divided
into 6 types and 9 accumulative formations from the
center outwards (Fig. 6). (1) cp 一 formation of central peak
meteorite relict accumulation or central peak fallback
accumulation (“central peak accumulative formation“for
short); (2) ba—formation of fallback and slump
accumulation at the center of a crater (“basin accumulative
formation” for short); (3) fb—formation of step
accumulation of arcuate fault blocks inside craters (“fault
block accumulative formation” for short); (4)
db—formation of dike-like coarse brecciated
accumulation outside the crater (“dike-like accumulative
formation” for short); (5) br—formation of dike-like fine
brecciform accumulative outside the crater (“fine
brecciated accumulation formation” for short); (6)
ra—formation of radial accumulatione outside the crater
(“radial accumulation formation” for short); (7)
ci—formation of accumulation inside the crater (“inside
accumulation formation” for short); (8) co—formation of
accumulation outside the crater (“outside accumulation
formation” for short); (9) cr—formation of crater
accumulation, referring to small craters and undividable
accumulations (“crater” for short); in addition to
no-filled bowl-shaped crater; E, ,incomplete crater; F. residual
crater.
Fig. 6. Classification of lunar crater accumulations
secondary craters and accumulation (sCc) and small crater
chains and accumulation (cc).
It should be explained that lunar craters tend to have
more complex structure when their diameters are
increased, and those formed in different times would have
varying degrees of subsequent disruption. Therefore, it
should be taken into account the particular form and
preservation status of a crater for classifying its ejecta
materials. During the geological mapping at a scale of
detail, it is enough to outline craters and accumulative
materials (cr); for craters with a diameter > 5 km or < 20
km, it is needed to identify accumulative materials inside
craters (ci) and materials outside craters (co); for craters
with a diameter > 20 km or <100 km, it is the best to
identify all accumulative formations from the center
outwards: the central peak accumulative formation,the
central accumulative formation, the fault block
accumulative formation, the dike-like accumulative
formation, the fine breccia accumulative formation and the
radial accumulative formation.
3.2.2 Features and genesis of crater accumulations
Based on the features of accumulative materials formed
during impact-ejection process and in consideration of the
classification schemes proposed by previous researchers,
we unitively named the accumulative materials of craters
“crater accumulative group”, and the different types of
crater accumulative materials are named different
“formations”. The accumulative materials in the study area
are divided into 9 accumulative formations from the center
outwards, which is given below in detail.
(1) Central peak accumulative formation (cp)
For this accumulative formation, Cep, Ecp, Icp and
ILCp are respectively used to denote the accumulations
formed in the Copernican, Eratosthenian, Late Imbrian
and Early Imbrian. Central peak accumulation composed
of meteorites usually has one or several well-preserved
blocks, which are very solid in quality. Each large rock
block is conical in form with a sharp top, like a pyramid. It
is fairly resemble the “horm peak” in glacial
geomorphology. Besides, the upper part of a large conical
block was consists of several isolated cones with their tips
connected by “ridges” that are as sharp as blade, like
“knife-edge crest” in glacial landforms. Each conic block
generally has 3-4 smooth but steep planes, whose dip
angles are generally larger than 45°. Obviously, the
formation of such “horns” and “crests” is due to strong
downward impact of meteorites, leading to conical
fragments of the rocks around rock blocks, and nearly
vertical impact from fallback blocks (Fig. 7).
Central peaks made up of fallback materials are scarcely
seen and they are generally hummocky rather than conical
in form. The peak tops are rounded and somewhat soft,
and were formed mainly by accumulation of fallback
debris from meteorite impact. Such peaks appear mostly
as single peaks that are dark in color and rather rough.
They are evidently different from central peaks composed
of meteorite accumulations in terms of forms and
characteristics, and thus are easily distinguished.
As for the genesis of central peaks, most of the
researchers hold meteorite impact, which will generate
intensive downward compression to bedrock in the central
crater and make the bedrock respond back upwards.
However, we consider that the central peaks might not be
formed due to upward response of bedrock since such
back response could cause only gentle upheavals instead
of local high mountains,and this hypothesis is also
supported by analysis of the texture, forms and
characteristics of the rocks forming the central peaks.
(2) Basin accumulative formation (ba)
For this accumulative formation, Cha, Eba, I,ba and
1,ba are respectively used to denote the fallback and slump
accumulations at the center of a crater formed in the
Copernican, Eratosthenian, Late Imbrian and Early
Imbrian. This accumulative formation is distributed in
areas of gentle relief, featuring small hummocks, low
roughness and relatively dark dune.
As for the genesis of the central accumulation of the
basin, we think the accumulation here was mainly
generated by the accumulate of ejecta debris and fallback
materials at the time when craters were formed. Moreover,
the study of the central accumulation of Crater Tycho
shows that within craters there are accumulative materials
formed due to collapse or slump along crater walls and in
areas of accumulative blocks; whereas late-stage filling of
basalt and plagioclase magma does not belong to
accumulation any longer.
(3) Fault block accumulative formation (fb)
For this accumulative formation outside crater, Cfb, Efb,
D 有 and Ib are respectively used to denote the
accumulations formed in the Copernican, Eratosthenian,
Late Imbrian and Early Imbrian. This block accumulative
formation is distributed between the basin accumulation
and ring faults, and it comprises a series of faulted
bedrock arcs, which have step distribution towards the
center of the crater because of meteorite impact.
Frequently, there are small amounts of debris of slump
blocks on the surface. Comparatively small craters
generally do not have block accumulation. Block
accumulation is sometimes called “wall accumulation”
among Chinese researchers. However, this places
emphasis merely on the position of accumulation instead
of the genesis of accumulative materials. The name of
“fault block accumulation” can clearly summarize the
origin of accumulative materials, and hence this name is
used throughout the geological mapping in this study.
(4) Dike-like breccia accumulative formation (db)
For this accumulative formation, Cdb, Edb, I,db and
Iidb are respectively used to denote the accumulations
formed in the Copernican, Eratosthenian, Late Imbrian
and Early Imbrian. This accumulation is distributed in
proximate regions outside ring faults, and composed
primarily of huge rock blocks, which were ejected from
craters when they were formed and accumulated as dike-
like rock belts just outside the ring faults. Such dike-like
accumulation always forms highs surrounding craters.
Generally, its outside slope against the crater is gentle
while the slope towards the center of the crater is steep.
The accumulative materials are dark and rough with
obvious hummocks. Study of relatively large craters, such
as Crater Tycho, indicates that bedrock erosion and
corrosion planes, wide or narrow, always appear between
dike-like accumulation and ring faults. Such dike-like
result, dike-like accumulation is observed most easily and
is a perfectly preserved portion of a crater among all its
components.
(5) Fine breccia accumulative formation (br)
For this accumulative formation outside crater, Cbr,
Ebr, Libr and I;br are respectively used to denote
accumulation formed in the Copernican, Eratosthenian,
Late Imbrian and Early Imbrian. This accumulation is
distributed between the dike-like accumulative formation
and the radial accumulative formation, and actually serves
as a transitional zone between the two. The ejecta
materials of this accumulative formation are obviously
finer compared with dike-like accumulative blocks, but
numerous salient rays are visible. The accumulation
becomes thinner from the crater’s center towards the edges
and meanwhile some small and short radial valleys and
gullies can be seen.
(6) Radial accumulative formation (ra)
For this accumulaivte formation, Cra, Era, Dra and [ira
are respectively used to denote accumulation formed in the
Copernican, Fratosthenian, Late Imbrian and Early
Imbrian. This accumulation is distributed in the outmost
zone of crater. It is made up of large amounts of fine
ejecta and secondary craters et al. The most prominent
feature of such accumulation lines in its clear rays, which
are characteristic of accumulations formed in the
Copernican in particular. The radial accumulation
generally has small thickness and is not evenly distributed.
The rays are varied greatly in length: dozens of kilometers,
tens or hundreds of kilometers, and are even as long as
thousands of kilometers, mainly depending upon the size
of crates.
(7) Crater inside accumulative formation(cD
This accumulative formation refers to accumulation
inside craters that can be subdivided because they are too
small. For this accumulative formation, Cci, Eci, I,ci and
Iici are respectively used to denote the accumulation
formed in the Copernican, Eratosthenian, Late Imbrian
and Early Imbrian.
(8) Crater outside accumulative formation (co)
This accumulative formation refers to accumulation
outside craters that can be subdivided also because the
craters are too small. For this accumulative formation,
Cco, Eco, I,co and Ico are respectively used to denote
accumulation formed in the Copernican, Eratosthenian,
Late Imbrian and Early Imbrian.
(9) Crater accumulative formation (cz)
The crater accumulative formation refers to the crater is
too small and the accumulation cannot be subdivided. For
this accumulative formation, Ccr, Ecr, Ler and ILCr are
respectively used to denote the accumulation formed in the
Copernican, Eratosthenian, Late Imbrian and Early
Imbrian.
For accumulation formed during the impact-ejection
process of the crater, “geological time+genesis“ is used to
denote “accumulative formations” of different geneses on
the geological map, and for each “accumulative
formation”, a capital letter is used for “time” and italic
lowercases thereafter are for the name of the accumulative
formation or the explanations of genesis and tectonic
position. The geological time of the formation is the
relative age of impact crater and ejection.
4 Stratigraphic Division
Based on the analyzing results of the samples directly
collected in the mapping area and neighboring regions,
especially Montes Apenninus and Montes Carpatus, both
attributed to the Imbrian Basin system, as well as at the
landing site of Apollo 15, and from the Apollo 11, 12, 14,
16 and 17 missions, in conjunction with the images directly
taken on the Moon surface, and considering particular
geological and geomorphologic features, we preliminarily
divide the bedrock and crater accumulation of the study
area into five accumulative series in stratigraphy: pre-
Imbrian bedrock accumulative group (PI), Early Imbrian
crater accumulative group, Late Imbrian crater
accumulative group, Eratosthenian crater accumulative
group and Copernican crater accumulative group.
4.1 Pre-Imbrian bedrock accumulative group (PI)
Images taken by Apollo 15 and 17 show clear
depositional beddings and unconformities in bedrock hills
nearby the landing sites. The rock is hard with well-
developed joint fissures and strong resistance to
weathering and erosion. In the high-resolution image of
Crater Tycho, the bedrock outcropping around the crater
also has clear depositional beddings, but the rock is not as
hard and is poorly resistant to erosion. Although the
bedrocks observed at the two places both show the
depositional beddings, yet the former are solid in quality,
had experienced intense tectonism and dip steeply;
whereas the latter are comparatively soft with horizontal
beddings or small dip angles. This perhaps proves that the
exposed bedrocks around the landing sites of Apollo 15
and 17 became so hard and steep just because they had
witnessed fairly strong metamorphism. The bedrocks in
these regions are then tentatively ascribed to the bedrock
accumulative group. Since this group had existed before
the formation of the Imbrian Basin, its age is then defined
as the pre-Imbrian and this accumulative group is
symbolized with “PI”. The overburden of the buried crater
appearing in the northeastern part of this map quadrangle
is ejecta of Mare Imbrium and the formation age of the
buried craters should be the Nectarian or pre-Nectarian
Periods. Such buried craters can be generally seen in terra
plateaus on the Moon.
In the southeastern and northeastern parts of the Imbrian
Basin in the mapping area, the image features of the rocks
constituting Montes Recti, Teneriffe, Pico, Piton and
Spitzbergen indicate that such rocks can be well correlated
with those from the Apollo 15 and 17 landing regions, that
is, they are solid with relatively intact appearance and all
situated in bedrock belts of the first ring structural zone
surrounding the Imbrian Basin. Therefore, the rock
formations possessing the above features are preliminarily
ascribed to the pre-Imbrian bedrock accumulative group
(Fig. 8).
4.2 Early Imbrian crater accumulative group
In view of the large size of Early Imbrian craters and
extensive distribution of accumulative materials. this
accumulative group is subdivided into three formations in
the accumulative formation in Sinus Iridum at the middle
stage of the Early Imbrian (I02) and the accumulative
separately, and are generally divided into the Early
Imbrian accumulative formation and the Late Imbrian
accumulative formation respectively. The accumulations
of small Eratosthenian and Copernican craters are not
separately grouped since their accumulative materials have
only limited distribution areas.
(1) Accumulative formation outside Mare Imbrium
Because Mare Imbrium crater was large in size in the
early Imbrian,whose diameter was up to 1123 km,its
ejecta and accumulative materials were distributed
extensively and the accumulations in the basin were
almost covered by Imbrian basalt or nearly exhausted due
to intensive contamination and assimilation because the
basin was formed so long a time ago, Nevertheless, the
ejecta materials accumulated when the Imbrian Basin was
formed have been largely preserved, which spread mainly
around Montes Alpes between the first ring structure and
the second ring structure in the north. Mountainous, hilly
and gentler lands appear alternately and show radial
distribution round the center of the Imbrium Basin. They
are light in tune, rather rough and have high albedo.
Because of its old age, the Imbrium Basin has so heavy
overburden of subsequent impact ejecta materials, that it
will be difficult to divide further. As a result, different
ejecta materials of the Imbrian Basin, including dike-like
breccia accumulation, fine breccia accumulation and radial
accumulation” and notated by I;' co.
(2) Accumulative formation in Sinus Iridum
The diameter of the early Imbrian Sinus Iridum is about
260 km, much smaller than that of Mare Imbrium crater,
being only 1/4 of the latter. Since it is comparatively
be defined: dike-like breccia accumulative formation
(1,%db), fine breccia accumulative formation (L2D7) and
radial accumulative formation ([“ra),
(3) Accumulative formation in Crater Plato
In the mapping area, Crater Plato is relatively young in
the Early Imbrian craters, but it is fairly large with a
diameter as large as 125 km+. It has widespread and well-
partly preserved though most of the accumulative
materials in the crater are subsequent basalt overburden.
And the accumulation is well preserved outside the crater,
which can be further divided into the dike-like breccia
(I, °br).
(4) Accumulative formation of Early Imbrian craters
This accumulative formation includes basically the
accumulative materials of small craters, which are not
further divided and are notated by I,cr, or divided merely
into inside accumulation and outside accumulation,
denoted by Lci and Ico, respectively.
4.3 Late Imbrian crater accumulative group
Because craters of this group are small, they are not
further divided and are notated by I,cr, or divided merely
into inside accumulation and outside accumulation,
denoted by Ici and Ico respectively, except some larger
ones, which are divided into I,cp, Lba, Lfb and Libr et al..
4.4 Eratosthenian and Copernican crater accumulative
groups
Further division of these accumulative groups depends
on the size and quantity of accumulative materials of
craters. For larger ones, the following groups can be
identified: central peak accumulation, basin accumulation,
fault block accumulation, dike-like breccia acumulation,
fine breccia accumulation and radial accumulation,et al.,
which are respectively denoted by Ccp, Cha, Cfb, Cdb,
Cbr and Cra, and Ecp, Eba, Efb, Edb, Ebr and Era. And
for the small ones, they are not further divided and are
only notated by CCr, Ecr.
5 Classification of Mare Basalt and Terra
Basalt
Researches revealed that the major basic eruptive rock
on the Moon is basalt and the eruption of basalt magma is
of the regional effusion type, resulting in board basalt
plain areas in Mare Imbrium, Mare Frigoris and Oceanus
Procellarum. And the different kind of basalts is correlated
with the stages of the eruptivities(Xu, 2010; Zhou et al.,
2010; Lin, 2010). Within the mapping area, preliminary
analysis of the distribution of TiO, content obtained based
on the JIM data. of Chang「E-I (Fig. 9) shows that there is
an obvious positive relationship between the degree of
magmatic emanation-assimilation and the content of TiO,
(Wang et al., 2012). Accordingly, the basalt is divided into
three primary types in light of its assimilation degree:
strong assimilation basalt, medium assimilation basalt and
weak assimilation basalt. If the content of TiO, and the
formation age of basalt are taken into account, the
following three cases can be summarized. (1) High-TiO,
basalt (EAD formed in the Eratosthenian with strong
assimilation, (2) Medium-TiO, basalt (I,m?) formed in the
Late Imbrian with medium assimilation and (3) Low-TiO;
basalt (I;/f) formed in the Early Imbriam with weak
assimilation. These three types of basalt have different
features on images and these features are in good
agreement with the analytic results of samples obtained by
the Apollo 11, 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17 missions, which can
thus be considered as important evidence for the above
division of the basalt (Fig. 9).
5.1 Features of mare basalt and terra basalt
5.1.1 High-TiO2 Eratosthenian basalt
wt%, which is obviously characterized by dark tune, dark
grey and grayish dark color, low albedo, small number of
xenoliths, strong assimilation and contamination.
Apparently, the areas of such basalt look quite“pure“with
very few and small impact craters, attributed to the
Eratosthenian and Copernican. Spatially, they are usually
elongated in the N-S direction around the central part of the
crater in lunar mare areas, while seen seldom in terra areas.
5.2.2 Medium-TiO; Late Imbrian basalt
Medium-TiO, basalt has the content between 4.5 wt%
and 7.0wt%, characterized by relatively light tune, grey to
dark grey color, comparatively more xenoliths, evidently
weaker assimilation and contamination compared with
Fig. 9. The TiO, distribution in Sinus Iridum and adjacent region
hight-TiO2 basalt, more small-sized craters distributed that
belong to the Eratosthenian and Copernican with a few to
the Late Imbrian.
5.1.3 Low-TiO; Early Imbrian basalt
Low-TiO, basalt has the content between 1.0 wt% and
4.5wt%,characterized by grey-light to grey color,the
largest number of most xenoliths compared with the above
two cases, well-preserved appearance of xenoliths, weak
assimilation and contamination, more small-sized and
occasional medium-sized craters distributed.
5.2 Mixed basalt in filling materials of crates in lunar
terra regions and their characteristics
Apart from ejecta fallback, slump and collapse
accumulations, the fillings of craters often include lava
materials resulting from magmatic stoping. Such filling
materials are sometimes called fillings of volcanic
eruption, namely basalt lava fillings. Crater Plato can be
the typical case, whose lava has dark tune and flat and
smooth surface, which are easily indentified. Besides,
there are some filling materials characterized by light tune
and many “tortoise-shell-pattern” tensional fissures, which
(after Wang et al., 2012).
are often distributed on one side of basalt fillings or
floated above them, or spread in isolation at the center of a
crater. Regionally, such fillings are mostly found in the
surrounding areas of maria and the features of their images
are between those of basalt and those of accumulations
and characterized by more “tortoise-shell-pattern” faults.
Such fillings are preliminarily thought to be a sort of
transitional basalt formed when central accumulation had
intense contamination and assimilation. According to the
research (Wang et al., 2011), such basalt has lower content
of basic composition compared with mare basalt and is
provisionally named mixed basalt. Filling materials of
some craters in the northern part of the mapping area, such
as La Condamine, is one of the examples (Fig. 5).
Tectonics
Many researchers developed detailedly the study about
the lunar regional tectonic characteristics, main structural
forms, genesis and evolution with Chang’E-I CCD image
data(Zhang et al, 2010, Wang et al., 2011). Diverse
structures are characteristic of the mapping area, including
lineaments such as faults, rimae and montes, as well as
some ring structures. Regionally, circular and arcuate
faults are distributed on the bottom of craters, and
moreover faulted structures are extensively developed in
basalt and ejecta accumulative areas in lunar maria. These
structures have approximately parallel lineaments, striking
dominantly NE, NW and NS with limited extent, 2.5 km,
in general. Their ages, however, are difficult to determine.
Persistence and consistence of the regional lineaments
suggest that they have had stable regional stress fields for
quite a long period. Therefore, we think that the stresses
responsible for the formation of the regional faulted
structures are mainly related to a secular and stable
longitudinal compression stress field resulting from the
spinning of the Moon, that is, the lunar surface structural
lines were formed due to long-range continual
compression stresses from the poles towards the equator.
6.1 Division and features of regional tectonics
The fault structure in the mapping quadrangle can be
divided into 4 basic types based on their distribution and
features: (1) Regional effusive faults in maria (Fig. 10),
(2) regional faults in crater accumulation,(3) regional
faults in terrae,and (4) crater fault systems,which are
further divided into 3 subtypes: crater ring faults, arcuate
faults inside craters and “tortoise-shell-pattern” faults.
6.1.1 Regional effusive fault in maria
These faults are distributed in maria and can function as
passages of regional effusion of mare basalt, thus being
called “regional effusive fault” or “effusive fault”. They
are characterized particularly by large scale and long
extent, and elongated ridges (called middle ridges,
sometimes) of basalt magma are typically seen along the
faults. In other words, such faults belong to tensional
faults. In Mare Imbrium, Sinus Iridum and Oceanus
Procellarum, these faults have concentric or radial
arrangement and are approximately parallel on the whole.
6.1.2 Regional fault in crater accumulation
Fig. 10. Regional ejecta faults distributed in mare basalt.
Faults of this type are distributed in ejecta-covering
areas due to meteorite impact, and can be called
“accumulative regional fault” or “regional fault”.
Formation of these faults is possibly related to strong and
repeated meteorite impact events and secular N-S-trending
regional compression stress field. Typically, they are
relatively small with relatively short extent, and generally
have concentrated distribution.
6.1.3 Regional fault in terrae
Terrae regions are seen only in the northern part of the
study area. Owing to thick cover of subsequent crater
ejecta, not very many faults are visible. The features of
this type of faults are almost the same as those of the last
case.
6.1.4 Crater fault system
(1) Crater ring faults
The most visible and best preserved lunar craters are
dike-like accumulation around crater rims and closed ring
faults around craters. Ring faults belong to the normal
faults inclining towards the centers of craters. They are the
boundaries between the inside and the outside portions of
a crater. Craters, no matter small or large, all have ring
faults.
(2) Arcuate faults inside craters
The arcuate faults are distributed between ring faults
and central accumulation areas. They are step normal
faults, appearing generally as arcuate fault zones
composed of a seties of short arcuate faults and inclining
towards the centers of craters. The size of an arcuate fault
or ring fault depends on the size of the relevant crater.
Small craters usually have only ring faults and the arcuate
faults undeveloped.
(3) Tortoise-shell-pattern faults
In a crater, contraction faults formed in a cooling
process are frequently seen on the surface of craters that
are filled up with basalt, mixed basalt and plagioclase
magma. They are generally small in size and distributed in
areas of central accumulation. The formation of such
faults is perhaps primarily related to stoping of basalt
magma or plagioclase magma, which might result in
tensional fissures in frozen mixed basalt or mixed
plagioclase, Since such faults usually show figures like the
pattern on tortoise shell, this type of faults are called
tortoise-shell-pattern faults (rimose faults).
6.2 Features of other lineaments
6.2.1 Rimae
Rimae are negative landform structure with a certain
width, which have linear arrangement and lie in basalt
regions on the nearside of the Moon. Their forms are
similar to those of passages of basalt lava flow: snake-
shaped, meandering and flowing along slopes. Their
source areas are irregular or elongated sags or impact sags,
which tend to become narrower and shallower along the
extension of rimae. Some rimae may terminate abruptly
without clear ends, disappearing in peripheral mare
sediments in most cases. On remote-sensing images, rimae
correspond to long and narrow dark fissures. Rimae are
well developed in the northern part of Oceanus
Procellarum and vicinities of Crater Plato. Among the
examples are Rima Plato in the northeast, Rima Sharp and
Rima Mairan in the west (Figs. 11, 12). These rimae are
probably passages of lava or collapsed lava pipes formed
during the period of volcanism.
6.2.2 Montes
Montes are distributed principally around large crater
basins on the Moon, appearing mainly as mountain rings,
which are mostly in relation to meteorite impact and form
continuous and precipitous mountain belts, up to 7-8 km
high and as long as several hundreds of or a thousand
kilometers. They are found in the surrounding areas of
large impact basins and lunar craters, exhibiting linear or
arcuate arrangement. Some of the mountains on the Moon
Fig. 11. Rima Sharp (partial section).
Fig. 12. Rima Plato (west section).
are closed walls of impact craters after subsequent erosion,
and some of them were caused by compression of the
Moon’s surface, representing the early-stage tectoic
movement. In remote-sensing images, the montes are
showed as bright areas and they are gentier on the sides
facing terras. In the mapping area, Montes Jura, Alpes,
Recti, Teneriffe, Pico, Piton and Spitzbergen are
developed around lunar mares in the Sinus Iridum - Mare
Imbrium region.
6.3 Division of tectonic units
In view of fault feature and spatial distribution,
landforms and rock types in the study area, the mapping
quadrangle is divided into three structural zones (Fig. 13):
(1) the regional effusive fault zone in mare plains, (2) the
regional fault zone in monte-hill areas (in basalt-
plagioclase accumulation) and (3) the regional fault zone
in plagioclasite in plateaus.
6.3.1 The regional effusive fault zone in mare plains
This fault zone is distributed in Mare Imbrium in the
south, Oceanus Procellarum in the west and Mare Frigoris
in the north of the mapping quadrangle. Spatially, this is a
U-shaped area, where the largest faults and most of the
faults of the studv area are distributed. Mare Imbrium has
larger and more faults. Oceanus Procellarum, Mare
Frigoris and Sinus Roris have relatively few faults. These
faults, appearing in groups, were major channels for the
formation of mare basalt. They are distributed
concentratedly with clear ring arrangement, which is very
much like the circular faults when Mare Imbrium and
Sinus Iridum were formed. The faults in this zone are
roughly grouped into three sets: trending NE, NW and N-
S respectively. The faults in every group have en echelon
arrangement. The NE-trending faults are generally
sinistral faults and the NW-trending faults are dextral
tensional faults. The longest faults can be as long as 200
km. There often appear elongate ridges of late-stage basalt
along the faults.
6.3.2 The regional fault zone in monte-hill areas
This fault zone lies in the central part of the quadrangle
and is a wide elongate area slightly bending
northwestwards. In the fault zone there are mainly ejecta
accumulations of craters of various ages, and mountainous
and hilly landforms are typical in this zone. The ejecta
accumulations are consist of not only basalt, but also
plagioclasite. High montes might be viewed in coarse
breccia dike-like accumulative areas around large craters,
such as Montes Jura in the northwestern edge, Montes
Alpes to the east of Mare Imbrium. The faults in this zone
are comparatively small, thousands or tens of thousands of
Fig. 13. Tectonic division in Sinus Iridum and adjacent regions.
meters in length. The longest ones can be up to 50 km.
The faults stretch primarily NE, NW and N-S with E-W-
trending faults occasionally seen.
6.3.3 The regional fault zone in plagioclase in plateaus
This fault zone is relatively small and irregular in shape
and lies in the north of the mapping area. Crater ejecta
plagioclase accumulation is the major lunar rock and it is
widely covered by Imbrian ejecta and large craters are
usually of the buried type. Small Eratosthenian and
Copernican craters are few in number. For instance, Crater
J. Herschel is overlain by ejecta of Mare Imbrium and
only much ring breccia accumulation has been preserved
"and other accumulative materials are buried. In craters of
the late Copernican, central peak accumulation, central
accumulation, fault block accumulation, ring faults and
circular accumulation are well developed (Fig. 14). The
faulting degree and strikes of the faults are similar to those
of the faults in terra areas, basically NE-, NW- and N-S-
striking.
6.4 Development and evolution of regional tectonics
Four evolution stages can be defined for the regional
tectonics in the mapping area according to the features and
distribution of different faults, as well as the covering
relationships of crater accumulative materials.
6.4.1 Formation stage of pre-Imbrian ring faults
Pre-Imbrian ring structures are distributed mainly in the
northwestern part and are all covered by Nectarian ejacta
accumulative materials, thus having become buried
craters. The inside of dike-like accumulation is an area of
ring faults, which are not exposed due to coverage of
accumulation of Nectarian craters. Now, we are not certain
whether regional faults are developed here. The ring faults
can be very large, whose diameters are mostly larger than
100 km, since the buried craters are fairly large.
6.4.2 Formation stage of Imbrian regional effusive
faults
This is a stage that the regional faults wrer the most
active. After the formation of Mare Imbrium, a
considerable quantity of basalt magma surged upwards
along ring faults and radial faults caused by meteorite
impact, not only filled up Mare Imbrium and also
violently eroded and contaminated surrounding rocks. As
a result, the previously formed craters and secondary
ejecta craters were subjected to serious disruption to form
filling craters, incomplete craters and residual craters. At
the late stage, high-Ti basalt magma of the Eratosthenian
was erupted extensively along N-S-stretching tensional
faults.
6.4.3 Formation stage of Eratosthenian regional faults
and crater ring faults
Along with the formation and consolidation of a large
amount of crater ejecta accumulations, NE- and NW-
trending conjugate faults and nearly SW-trending
tensional faults were formed by strong nearly SW-directed
compression stress fields from the two poles to the equator
due to the revolution and rotation of the Moon, In the
Eratosthenian, meteorite impact was significantly
weakening and ring faults were small, generally tens of
kilometers in length, suggesting weaker and weaker
faulting activity during this period.
6.4.4 Formation stage of Copernican crater ring faults
In the Copernican, regional basalt magmatism was
basically terminated. Therefore, few filling process
occurred in Copernican craters. Craters due to meteorite
impact in this period usually have small sizes with
diameters no larger than tens of kilometers in general.
7 Conclusions
(1) Based upon the CCD image data, interference
imaging spectral data and DEM data of China’s lunar
exploration project (Chang’E-I), as well as analytic results
of mineral and element contents, comprehensive studies
were conducted with the Sinus Iridum - Mare Imbrium
region as the center, including the divisions of
stratigraphic and tectonic units,rocky type division,
chronological research and evolution history of the Moon.
A geological map of the Sinus Iridum Quadrangle at a
scale of 1: 2.5M was completed (Fig. 15).
(2) Based on the morphological features of craters,
quantity and preserving status of fillings of craters, the
lunar impact craters can be divided into 7 types and 11
sub-types, and accumulative materials of craters are
divided into 6 types and 9 accumulative formations.
(3) Based on the content, distribution of TiO2 and
regional image characteristics, the mare and terra basalts
are divided into high-TiO, basalt formed in the
Eratosthenian,medium-TiO2basalt formed in the Late
Imbrian and tow-TiOz basalt formed in the Early Imbrian.
(4) The Early Imbrian bedrock accumulate groups in the
northern terra plateau area consists of crater ejecta
plagioclasite accumulative materials, which experienced
violent reworking of subsequent impact of craters such as
Mare Imbrium and are extensively covered. Such
accumulation can also be found around the first ring
structure in the southeastern, northeastern and western
parts of the Imbrian Basin.
(5) The Early Imbrian craters are generally large in size
with extensively distributed accumulations, which can be
accordingly further divided into three formations: the
accumulative group in Mare Imbrium at the early stage of
the Early Imbrian, the accumulative group in Sinus Iridum
at the middle stage of the Early Imbrian and the
accumulative group in Crater Plato at the late stage of the
Early Imbrian. This implies the intense impact-magmatism
taking place in the study area in the Early Imbrian.
(6) Based on the features, spatial distribution, landform
and rock type of the faults, the mapping quadrangle is
divided into three structural zones: (1) the regional
effusive fault zone in mare plains, (2) the regional fault
zone in monte-hill areas (in basalt-plagioclase
accumulation) and (3) the regional fault zone in
plagioclasite in plateaus. This manifests the characteristics
of the regional tectonic distribution and evolution of the
study area.
Acknowledgements
This study is financially supported by the National
“863” Project (Grant No.: 2010AA12220105) and the
Standard Research of Lunar mapping of Geology and
Tectonics (Grant No.: Y2ZZ031000-02) from Institute of
Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Remote-
sensing data of the Chang’E-I satellite and other data and
research results available in China and abroad were used
to the geological mapping of the Sinus Iridum quadrangle
in this study. Gratitude is also due to the National
Astronomical Observatories, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, and China University of Geosciences (Beijing),
as well as all researchers of this mapping project for their
energetic assistance and support.
Manuscript received Mar. 6, 2013
accepted Sept. 13, 2013
edited by Fei Hongcai
