基于2D-LDV技术的船舶螺旋桨三维流场结构分析
利用2D-LDV设备,通过优化布置测试点,获得了均匀来流下螺旋桨尾流场三维流动数据。展示了宏观的流场动态以及微观的流动信息,如尾涡和梢涡在流场中的分布情况、尾涡部流动的剪切效应、梢涡部的绕流及流动分离状态。计算了水动力螺距角以及螺旋桨附着涡的总环量。试验显示了LDV技术在流动细节测试方面的优势,获得的定量信息可以为相关研究人员提供技术支持。

螺旋桨尾流 流动分离 水动力螺距角 环量 LDV  

中图分类号;V211.7文献标识码:Adoi:
0 Introduction
When design the propeller, it is essential to get ac-
curate information about the structure of marine propel-
ler“「s trailing vortex. Since the efficiency is an important
measurement for the propeller and largely depended on
the distribution of the circular rector of each blade ,the
optimization of the distribution becomes a very sinificant
part in the design of marine [)l'()薹)(事ll(羞l′〔】_3〕. In 1919,
Betz firstly used the lifting line theory to deduce the con-
dition of the optimal distribution of circular rector for the
propellers working in uniform flow. Since then, many
scholars did plenty of researches in this field[451 In
1992, Li Zhiheng'”’ measured the velocity field of pro-
_ peller by using the LDV system and investigated the cir-
cular rector by integration of velocity between blades ,
10 years later, Su Yumin‘?! dispersed the vortex system
10. 7638/kqdlxxb-2013. 0055
by the propeller’s lift-line vortex model, and then made
use of the variation principle to establish a basic equa-
tion that is content to the given load factor or power fac-
tor of a propeller to calculate the best distribution of cir-
cular rector. In addition, he used the numerical calcu-
lating method to solute the equation and finally got the
optimal solution. In 2006, Dong Zhengqing'?' used the
LDV facility to measure the inner flow field of the ducted
propeller by opening a window on the pipe walls and an-
alyze the result. Then he also got the blades’ radial dis-
tribution of the circular rector by integration by parts of
tangential velocity in lower reaches and compare it with
that of open water propeller in the circumstance of the e-
qual thrust force. In 2007, Li Guangnian'""’ analyzed
the result of the propeller trailing vortex sheet「s LDV test .
in detail. He also compared the flow「s information of the
two cross section in the propeller tailing vortex under the
condition of uniform flow, as well as the circumferential
distributions of axial velocity and radial velocity in
different radius of the same cross section. However,
because of the limited technologies at that time, Li can
only get the information of the axial direction and radial
direction in his test, without the distribution of the
velocity in circumferential direction,
In the recent 20 years, despite of the rapid devel-
opment of the CFD technology and many satisfying
results about the hydrodynamic performance of propeller
we got through the CFD method" | it is still elusive
to monitor the micro-structures of complex flow, so the
technique of flow field measurement and experiment is
indispensable. Furthermore, we can hardly establish
any theoretical model and confirm the result without the
certification form the experiments. Fortunately, with the
development of science and technology ,the laboratory
apparatus and the experiment methods have been
enhanced a lot and many complicated problems that used
to haunting the researchers is promising to be solved. By
. the means of relative experiments, it is possible to
connect the detailed information about the generation
process of propeller trailing vortex and flow of propeller
tip to optimize the design of propeller as well as verify the
CFD result systematically. This essay will describe the
experiment that takes advantage of 2D-LDV technology to
test the 3-D velocity field on one of the cross section in
propeller trailing vortex sheet in large cavitation tunnel
by arranging the test pots optimally, and analyze the
experimental data in a detailed way.
1 Experiment method
The experiment object is DTMBP4119 paddle and
the equipments and propeller model will be introduced
in the reference{ 5]. In this experiment, the propeller is
designed when J = 0. 833. The positive direction of
x-axis is flow direction; that of the z-axis is vertically
upward through the propeller disk center; y-axis is
determined by the right-hand rule. The aim of this
experiment is to measure the axial and radial velocities
of the propeller「 s wake field. The 0° of the motion
, coordinate system represents the reference line of the
propeller blade, and the 0° of static coordinate system
stands for the horizontal meridional plane. The cross- “
section of slip stream which the x/R =0. 3281 is set as
the test surface. The test point in radial coordinate are
r/R=0.3875, r/R=0.4, r/R=0.5, r/R=0.575, r/R=
0. 7625, r/R=0.8988, r/R=0.95, r/R=1.0. The speed
range of 2D laser speedometer produced by the TSI is (0 ~
100) m/s, with error of 0.2% , and the location of the speed
testing point can be controlled by the 3D mobile coordi-
nates rack. Since the experiment instrument can only
record the 2D speed, namely the axial and vertical
speed, in this experiment we measured two points that
were in the same radius to get the 3D velocity field ,as
shown in figure 1. First we measured the point A of
which the axial speed is that of the propeller wake, and
the vertical speed is the tangential velocity of the propeller
wake, then the point B measurements, it is the same as
that of the point A. When it comes to the rotating flow
field, the LDV measure process can be divided to 2
steps. First, according to the time information of the
rotating phase form the propeller shaft power meter
phase encoder, we recorded different information into
the different circumferential position of the space unit.
Then in the last space unit,we calculated the average
speed of different times. So the LDV velocity measure-
ments given in the final value is actually a average
circumferential speed of each unit of space time. In this
experiment, the space angle resolution of LDV measure-
ment system is set to 0. 92 every 0.9°as a spatial unit,
thus there are 400 space units in a circle of 360° . From
the result, we are confident that the resolution can meet
the required test resolution accuracy. Because the phase
point around is different, in the test coordinate system,
the speed data of points B had 270° phase shift contrasted
to points A. In order to point out the phase relationship
between the test data and that of the real propeller blades,
power meter phase encoder is used in this experiment. As
the phase of the encoder and between the propeller shaft is
fixed, the propeller blades in the test phase of the specific
coordinate system can be tested by the laser beam
alignment and positioning of the propeller blade reference
line method. The result showed that when encoder
instructions pointed to 0°, the reference line of propeller
leaf 1 is at the 20° phase in test coordinate system.
2 Data analysis
In this essay, U,, V,, V, and V, stands for the
stream velocity, axial velocity in fluid field, radial
velocity and circumferential velocity respectively.
2.1 Circumferential velocity field
Figure 2 shows the distribution curves of the
跋2呆白速度分布
Figure 3 reveal the circumferential velocity on
transversal surface by x/R=0.3281. From Figure 3 we
can find that, corresponding to three blades, three tip
vortices distribute on the transversal surface by equal
space and the vortex center locates around the place
where r/R =0. 95. It is apparent in. the Figure 3 that
there ave three strip obvious high speed tapes in the
corves of the circumferential velocity, corresponding to
three blades. These high speed tapes extend from
prapeller hub. to blade tip and conneet with tip vortex.
Three strip vortex sheets which orhit along with
the propeller penetrate the transversal surface, leading to
above three strip mutational speed area. Figure 4 provide
flow information 叱 trailing vortex on transversal surface.
Vector diagram shows that the flow around tip vortex and
trailing vortex is: chaos and velocity gradient is large.
Moreover, one step appears when flow line passes trailing
vortex, which indicates the flow around trailing vortex has
obvious deformation effect and the flow around tip vortex
has circumfluence. The flow separation also appears.
2.2 Hydrodynamic pitch angle
Using axial and tangential velocity field from the
experiment, we can get hydrodynamic pitch angle by
calculation.
circumferential velocities in different radiusof the cross
section. It indicates that the distribution of the circum-
ferential velocity changes periodically and three snap
backs appear in one circle, namely one snap back per
one paddle period, which are real velocity values and
vortex and viscosity wake surface),
Bi=t君矗【】_l(尖〉,
2mrR + V,
where V, and V, are the average of two peaks ( point A
and point B shown in Figure 5 aroused by the trailing
vortex, which are the average value of up and low level
velocity of trailing vortex sheet. The results of hydrody-
namic pitch angle of tail vortex are shown in the Figure
6. At the interval between 0. 2D and 0. 3D,the hydrody-
namic pitch angle gets larger when it far away from the
propeller at outside radius. The distribution law of hy-
drodynamic pitch angle can’t be discussed because of
the sparsity of text points at inside radius.
According to the tangential velocity of propeller
trailing vortex measured from the experiment,we can
obtaintotal attachment vortex circulation of propeller
bound vortex from the Stokes integration and make the
circulation dimensionless by 2mrRU0。。Then we can get
dimensionless circulation ,
where Ab is the configured angular solution in the LDV
test, and the calculated results are shown in figure 7.
The Figure 7 reveal that, in the circumstance of uniform
flow, the distribution of the circulation in propeller trai-
ling wake along radial direction is one of our acquainted
forms and the circulation of measurement plane along the
propeller direction is a process that increasing gradually ,
which is maximum when r/R=0.7. With the distance
from propeller quotation increasing, the circulation is on
a declining curve as a whole, which reaches to zero
when it goes to tip.
This paper analyzes the three-dimensional flow field
informationof propeller wake under uniform flow. Exper-
iment results show the macroscopic flow field trends and
microcosmic dynamic information. The following conclu-
sions can be drawn:
1) The LDV technology has huge advantages in the
flow details of the test. It can capture the subtle flow
structure, such as the speed mutation near the up ot
propeller blade.
| 2 ) The hydrodynamic pitch test results show the
coanda effect in circulation control airfoil[ J]. Journal of Engineer-
law of the spatial distribution. In order to obtain the
ing Thermophysics, 2010, 31(9 ) ; 123-130. (in Chinese)
accurate information, the next step should be encrypting
宋彦萍,杨晓光,李亚超,等.环量控制翼型中柯恩达效应的数
EER]. 工 程 热 物 理 , 2010, 31(9):123-130.
the arrangement of radial test points,
3) The calculation results of the total circulation of
[D]. China Ship Scientific Research Center, 1992, 05: 2-5. (in
the propeller attach to vortex consistent with the theory ,
Chinese)
李志恒.螺旋桨流场及环量LDV测量方法[D1.上海交通大
but because of the structure of the tip of the flow field is
学,中国船舶科学研究中心,1992,05:2-5.
complex and the velocity gradient is large ,this part of
[8] SU Y M, HUANG S. Numerical optimization of circulation distribu-
the circulation distribution remains to be further
tion on marine propellers[ J]. Journal of Harbin Engineering Univer-
sity, 2002, 23(1) :14,(in Chinese) .
explored. To increase test points along the radial
苏玉民,黄胜.船舶螺旋桨叶片环量的数值优化[J].哈尔滨工
direction, in series section and in a number of
程 大 学 学 报 , 2002 , 23(1):14.
conditions, the flow field is considered for further work.
[9] DONG Z Q, LU LZ, ZHOU W X. LDV measurements of inner ve-
locity field of ducted propeller [ J]. Journal of Ship Mechanics,
