基于布谷鸟搜索算法的一类变体飞行器容错控制
针对一类存在执行机构故障的分布式结构变体飞行器的控制分配问题,结合整数规划理论,提出一种基于布谷鸟搜索算法的容错控制方法。首先,设计虚拟控制指令,使得系统状态能够很好地跟踪参考模型;然后,将执行器概率性故障与饱和约束转换为整数规划问题中决策变量的约束,从而将执行器控制分配问题转化为一类整数规划问题;最后,采用改进的布谷鸟搜索算法进行求解,得到实际的执行器控制分配指令。仿真结果表明,在执行器存在概率性故障的情况下,该容错控制方法较无容错策略的情况能够有效提升系统的跟踪性能;与遗传算法相比,该算法得到的执行器控制分配结果更加精确。

变体飞行器 容错控制 控制分配 优化问题 布谷鸟搜索  

dynamics (CFD); ACTRAN
Article ID: 1671-9433(2013)03-0351-10
1 Introduction
In the high temperature and pressure steam pipe, the
working condition is so adverse that it can not only seriously
affect the service life of the valve used chronically, but also
produce a lot of noises. This kind of problem has caused
many attentions of the designing departments and researching
units. The noise induced by the fluctuant steam flows because
of the high pressure differences and is one of the most
important components of the valve noises. It speciaily
contributes to the radiant noises at the mouth of the pipe. In
addition, it also has many difficulties in reducing the
flow-induced noise mostly with low-frequency. When the
main frequencies of the noises are close to the natural acoustic
frequencies of the valve, the resonance may lead to significant
vibrations and noises or may even cause structural damages to
appear. In specific critical conditions, the valve noise gets
even up to 150 dB. Therefore, in terms of the service life or
the way to control the valve noise, the numerical simulation of
level of the far field with the integral or acoustic analogy
strategy. One of the most fundamental assumptions of the
indirect simulation method is that it ignores the interactions
between the acoustic source field and the flow field, making
this method more suitable for the low Mach number
situations. For the high Mach number situation or the
heterogeneous liquid, we considered the average flow
effects on the acoustic field. After that we used the
Mohring’s acoustic analogy to solve the problem. The
advantages of this method were to estimate the
characteristics of the heterogeneous liquid and take the
average flow effects on the acoustic field into account.
For the direct or indirect simulation method, the control
equations can be calculated by the direct numerical
simulation (DNS), the large eddy simulation (LES) or the
unsteady Reynolds-averaged Navier-Stokes (RANS) model.
However, the LES was the most promising numerical method
for estimating the noises of the turbulent flow field, and it
can effectively solve the problem of the Reynolds number
limitation in the DNS simulation. In recent years, many
scholars have employed LES to investigate the mechanism of
generation, propagation and radiation of the flow-induced
noises in detail. Especially, literature regarding the
flow-induced noise of jets using the LES has often been seen
in the last few years. For instance, an investigation of an
isothermal Mach 0.75 jet and its radiated sound using
large-eddy simulation and Kirchhoff surface integration was
352 Jiming Liu, et al. Numerical Study On Flow-induced Noise For a Steam Stop-valve Using Large Eddy Simulation
conducted (Anderson er al., 2005). The predicted sound
pressure levels were for all observer locations within a 3 dB
deviation from the measured levels and for most observer
locations within a 1 dB deviation. Aerodynamic results and
predicted sound pressure levels were both in good agreement
with the experiments. A computation of a high Reynolds
number jet and its radiated noise using large eddy simulation
based on explicit filtering was also performed (Bogey and
Bailly, 2006). The flow and the acoustic field obtained
directly by LES also had good agreement with the
measurements of the literature. These studies increased the
number research of jobs on the field being done as well (Xia
et al., 2009; Shur et al., 2010; Lele et al., 2010; Cavalieri et
al., 2011). Otherwise, the unsteady flow and aerodynamic
noise of NACA0018 airfoil using large-eddy simulation were
computed (Kim ef al, 2006). The computation using
aero-acoustic analogy indicates the primary discrete peak at
the Strouhal frequency of 0.15 by the vortex shedding from
the trailing edge, which is in close agreement with the
experiment. The cavity flow induced noise by LES and
FW-H acoustic analogy was numerically simulated (Zhang et
al., 2010). The computed results were compared with
experimental data of Large Circulation Channel in CSSRC
and it showed that the numerical prediction method was
credible. Based on all of the literature, it provides a body of
good evidence that using LES to investigate the mechanism
of generation, propagation and radiation of the flow-induced
noises is a feasible choice.
An examination of the flow-induced noise in a steam
stop-valve was studied by utilizing LES with LES-WALE
and Lighthill’s acoustic analogy. The study was carried out
with CFD and ACTRAN, and the numerical prediction
method was validated by Sandberg et al. (2006). They have
presented this aeroacoustic approach for predicting the noise
level generated by an idealized HVAC blower and an axial
fan. It is based on a two-step procedure. In the first step an
unsteady flow is computed using CFD. This first step serves
to predict aerodynamic sources of noise. In the second step,
an acoustic computation is made using Actran. Preliminary
acoustic results have been obtained, showing a pretty good
agreement with experimental results. So employing the
same numerical prediction method to predict the
flow-induced noise in a steam stop-valve is credible.
In this paper, it aims at establishing a suitable numerical
method about how to deal with the compressibility of the
steam when predicting the flow-induced noise of stop-valve
in pipeline and whether the heat preservation of the wall has
influence on the noise. The present paper is organized as
follows. The numerical procedure, computational model and
mesh, numerical schemes, boundary conditions, evaluation
indexes, are all presented in Section 2. The results, including
those of all the schemes such as validation of meshes,
treatment of compressibility, effect of velocity, effect of heat
preservation, are shown in Section 3 where the sound
pressure level and sound power level are studied.
Concluding remarks are then given in Section 4.
2 Problem definition and assumptions
For purposes of this paper,the researchers examined a
flange-connected stop-valve model with nominal diameter
D=200 mm, with the open height of the stop-valve disc at
30% of the nominal diameter, namely the valve reaching the
full open position. The steam flow direction is top-bottom,
and two straight pipes with consistent nominal diameter
were set-up at the upstream and downstream of the valve in
order to get the steam flow fully developed, constituting the
sound source domain, as shown in Fig. 1. The other two
straight pipes beyond the sound source domain were used to
decrease the errors generated by the pipe truncation effects.
The acoustic model should be constituent of sound source
domain and propagation domain. Here, two 200 mm straight
pipes beyond the sound source domain were set-up as the
propagation domain due to ignoring the sound radiation
through the pipe walls, as shown in Fig. 2.
joint. The paper is mainly written to investigate the noise
induced by the eddy in pipes, therefore, in order to simplify
the problem and strengthen the aim of the results, all the
pipes are regarded as rigid. That is to say, the noise induced
by the vibration of the pipes was not considered in the study.
In addition, the pipes were assumed sound-insulating. The
fluid was saturated water steam and the inlet flow of the
stop-valve was assumed to be a fully developed turbulent
flow generated in a straight pipe.
3 Numerical simulation
3.1 Numerical simulation procedure
In this paper, the CFD in which large eddy simulation
employing the LES-WALE dynamic model as the
sub-grid-scale model was implemented, used to calculate the
three-dimensional flow field of the stop-valve, and the
ACTRAN was used to calculate the flow-induced noise with
Lighthill’s acoustic analogy. Based on the properties of the
flow field, the calculating process is shown in Fig. 3. Firstly,
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 351-360
domain is not necessarily included (for instance, the CFD
the fluid solvers such as CFX, Star-CD, Star-CCM+, Fluent,
Power flow, AcuSolve, Open FOAM, etc. And then the
variables are exported in Ensight-Gold format which is a
general format of most CFD code, like speeds, temperatures,
pressures, densities, efc. Thirdly, iCFD in ACTRAN is used to
volume source gained from iCFD into the acoustic grids.
Fig. 3 Calculation process of the flow-induced noise
fluctuating motion and it uses a sub-grid scale turbulence
model for the small-scale motion, which means the
number, is shown using index notation in Eq. (1).
And the Navier-Stokes equations are given in Eq. (2)
353
where i, j=1, 2, 3, and any repeated subscript means
summation over that subscript. The governing equations for
LES are obtained by filtering the time-dependent
Navier-Stokes equations in the physical space. The filtering
processes effectively filter out eddies and decompose the
flow variable into large scale (resolved) and small scale
(unresolved) parts. b can be defined in Eq. (3) as
P(x) = (x) + p(x") (3)
where ￠(x) is defined through volume averaging in Eq. (4)
Substituting Eq. (5) into Eq. (4) yields
Filtering the Navier-Stokes equations leads to additional
unknown quantities. The filtered incompressible momentum
equation can be written in the following way:
It includes the effect of the small scale and
T, SUU; — Ul; (8)
influence of the small scale is taken into account in
appropriate sub-grid-scale (SGS) model. The original SGS
and LES WALE model which is a wall-adapted local
eddy-viscosity model was presented (Nicoud and Ducros,
1999).
of the WALE model are the capability to reproduce the
laminar to turbulent transition and the design of the model to
return the correct wall-asymptotic y“ -vatiation of the SGS
viscosity. It offers therefore, the same advantages as the
Dynamic Smagorinsky-Lily model and at the same time
The flow-induced noise can be well simulated by
ACTRAN which is based on Lighthill「s acoustic analogy,
well (Sandberg et al., 2006), therefore, it also can be
354 Jiming Liu, et al. Numerical Study On Flow-induced Noise For a Steam Stop-valve Using Large Eddy Simulation
adopted to simulate the noise induced by the fluctuating
steam flow in this paper.
Lighthill’s acoustic analogy is suitable for flows where
the convection and refraction effects can be neglected in
relation to other effects, which is generally true if the Mach
number is low enough (below 0.2). So Lighthill「s acoustic
analogy theory is used to simulate the sound features. The
derivation of Lighthill’s acoustic analogy theory comes from
N-S equation. Because of the nonlinearity and the coupling
of flow and acoustics, the equation is hard to solve.
Therefore the acoustic field is divided into near field and far
field. The near field is the source area and the far field is the
radiation area. This paper is based on the assumption that
the flow in the radiation area has no effect on the sound
features. In this assumption, the continuity equation and the
momentum equation were simplified to get the Lighthill’s
acoustic analogy equation:
written as:
To solve the equation, some assumptions are made. First,
the small stress tensor is ignored according to the actual
flow conditions. Secondly, the interaction between flow and
sound is ignored. Ignoring the fluctuation of fluid density
and pressure, the Lighthill’s stress tensor was simplified as
2-磊′=p1′童1'/'
3.3 Computational mesh
The precision of the flow field simulation depends on the
number of nodes, allowing adoption of the tetrahedron nets
for the stop-valve area and hexahedral nets for the others, as
shown Fig. 4 (Front view) below, consequently getting more
nodes with the same amount of the units. As we can see
from the left view, the grids at boundary layer get very good
treatment by employing the “O-Grid” of ICEM. The
acoustic field simulation with ACTRAN has no strict
demand of grids. In order to save calculation time,
tetrahedron grids were applied to all areas, and the grids at
the disordered flow fields such as downstream areas of the
valve were subdivided.
Fig. 4 Mesh for the flow field computation
3.4 Numerical schemes and boundary conditions
The properties of the saturated water steam at 250 “C are
given in Table 1, while the pressure is 3.977 7 MPa. Table 2
shows the numerical schemes and boundary conditions
completely. Firstly, the mesh for the computation of the flow
field was validated, by computing three different kinds of
elements, as well as the acoustic field. Secondly, the
influence of steam treatment on the flow-induced noise was
discussed in detail. The steam treated as incompressible gas,
ideal gas, real gas, is respectively computed. The density of
the ideal gas was calculated in accordance with the ideal gas
law and the real gas was simulated by using the Redlich
Kwong equation of state. Thirdly, the flow-induced noises
under different inlet velocities (2, 4, 6 m/s) were compared.
Lastly, an investigation on whether or not the heat transfer
coefficient of the wall leads to significant contribution to the
flow-induced noise was analyzed. The heat transfer
In the paper, the flow computation is implemented with
the speed for inlet boundary condition and the pressure for
outlet boundary condition. The time-step is Se~-4 s,and
more than 10000 steps were preceded. As the flow field
becomes stable, the results of 1 000 steps were stored. At the
moment, the resolution ratio of the acoustic field is 2 Hz.
The frequency domain taken into account in this paper was
30-1000 Hz.
3.5 Evaluation indexes
The streamline and velocity vector are qualitative analysis,
so we introduce the parameter of uniformity of velocity
distribution to confirm the feasibility of the meshes. The
parameter of uniformity of velocity distribution at certain
simulation time is defined as:
where x is the number of nodes on the certain plane.
Because of LES, uniformity at different simulation time is
not the same,and this paper takes average of uniformity
over stimulation time.
Sound pressure level and sound power level at a specific
frequency is defined as follows:
Total sound pressure level and total sound power level
between f; and f￡; is defined as follows:
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 351-360
Table 1 Properties of saturated water steam at 250 C
20.01 4.009 2.801 6.072 1.75￠—5 5.125e-2 501.76
Table 2 Numerical schemes and boundary conditions
1 489 676 (coarse) 297 634 (fine)
2 144 227 (fine)
Treatment of steam 2 144 227 (fine) 297 634 (fine) Ideal 4 100
5 649 654 (refined)
4 Computation and results
4.1 Validation of mesh
Fig. 5 shows the comparisons of the uniformities of
velocity distribution of three kinds of meshes, varying with
the dimensionless distance L whose head end and extending
direction is showed in Fig. 1. It can be seen that three curves
are coincident in the main. So from this standpoint, these
three kinds of meshes are all applicative. Moreover,
uniformity decreases with the increase of distance and when
the distance becomes 6D, uniformity almost remains the
same value, which validates the sound source region was
sufficient for computing fluid-borne noise.
characteristics of the three kinds of flow field meshes. The
Incompressible
Real
100
radiated sound power from the inlet or outlet both indicates
the fine mesh has good agreement with the refined mesh in
more comprehensive verification, Table 3 gives the
difference among total sound pressure level at the
observing-point and total sound power level from
inlet/outlet. The difference between fine mesh and refined
mesh is less than 1 dB while that between coarse mesh and
refined mesh is much larger, about 8 dB. In addition, the
acoustic characteristics at the inlet and outlet are almost the
same in the same condition.
Fig. 7 shows the comparison of the acoustic
characteristics of the three kinds of acoustic field meshes.
The radiated sound power from the inlet or outlet both
indicates that the acoustic results have little reliance on the
meshes of the acoustic field. However, it shows that there is
a better coincidence between the fine mesh and the refined
mesh. In order to get more comprehensive verification,
Table 4 gives the difference among total sound pressure
level at the observing-point and total sound power level
from inlet/outlet. The difference between fine mesh and
refined mesh is less than 1 dB as well as that between coarse
mesh and refined mesh. Just as it shows in the previous
section, the acoustic characteristics at the inlet and outlet are
almost the same in the same condition as well.
In light of the results gained above, the fine meshes of the
flow field (2 144 227 elements) and the acoustic field
(297634 clements) are sufficient for later calculations. And
356 Jiming Liu, et al. Numerical Study On Flow-induced Noise For a Steam Stop-valve Using Large Eddy Simulation
the same meshes of the flow field and the acoustic field are
In order to get more comprehensive verification, Table 5
order to eliminate the influence of the grid.
gives the difference among total sound pressure or power
levels. The difference between the incompressible gas and
4.2 Treatment of steam
In this section of the paper, namely the treatment of the
gas is much larger, about 25 dB. Hence, by predicting the
Fig. 8 shows the speed contours under different
flow. However, it is easy to find that there is some difference
between the acoustic characteristics at the upstream and the
non-uniform, especially in the stop-valve. And the
downstream of the real gas. Fig. 11 gives the sound pressure
maximum speed was under 26 m/s, and as a result the Mach
number is under 0.052. Fig. 9 and Fig. 10 show the
outlet of the stop-valve and the downstream.
treatments. The sound pressure level at the observing-points
Based on the conclusions gained at present, in the latter
parts, the steam is treated as incompressible gas flow and
indicate that the incompressible gas has good agreement
just the status at the downstream is paid with close attention.
with the ideal gas in the whole frequency range, while the
ideal gas has larger deviations, especially at low frequencies.
Coarse mesh 137.0 138.0 -1.0 79.0 79.9 -0.9
Fine mesh 145.5 145.8 -0.3 87.4 87.7 —0.3
Refined mesh 144.9 145.4 -0.5 86.8 87.3 —0.5
p G 2 FR
Coarse mesh 145.1 145.2 —0.1 87.2 87.4 -0.2
Fine mesh 145.5 「 145.8 -0.3 87.4 87.7 —0.3
Refined mesh 145.8 146.1 -0.3 87.5 87.8 —0.3
Difference Coarserefined 07 o no
sound power level )
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 351-360
total sound power level)
inlet velocities were compared. Fig. 12 shows the
observing-point 2 and Fig. 12(b) gives the radiated sound
spectrum’s magnitude is the same all along the frequency
domain. In order to see much more vivid variation of the
flow-induced noise along with the inlet velocity, Fig. 13
shows how the total sound pressure or power level depends
on inlet velocity. Broadly, the total level enlarges when the
inlet velocity increases, but the enlarging gradient slows
about 7dB from 4 m/s to 6 m/s. To sum up, the inlet
357
noise.
4.4 Effect of heat transfer
Does the heat preservation of the wall influence the
flow-induced noise? Fig. 14 shows the comparison of the
acoustic spectrums with different heat transfer coefficients.
coefficient. It’s clear that the figures all indicate the
the same when the heat transfer coefficient exceeds
50W-(m*K)?". To sum up, the heat preservation of the wall
had little influence on the noise of the stop-valve.
Jiming Liu, et al. Numerical Study On Flow-induced Noise For a Steam Stop-valve Using Large Eddy Simulatic
different treatments
Table 5 Difference among L, or L,, under different treatments
Value 145.5 145.8 —0.3 87.4 87.7 -0.3
Ideal gas 170.6 170.6 0 112.5 112.6 0.1
Real gas 147.2 145.9 1.3 89.2 87.9 -1.3
Difereree Mncmal i 恩 二 根 江 。
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 351-360
0 100 (G00
丁H
(a) Sound pressure level at observing-point 2
three velocities
levels on inlet velocity
0 100 1000
加Hz
(b) Radiated sound power from outlet
on inlet velocity
5 Conclusions
In the paper, numerical studies on the flow-induced noise
credible. The study also validate that two million elements
were sufficient for examining the situations in the paper.
Conclusions were draw as follows:
1) When predicting the flow-induced noise of the
stop-valve based on the properties of the flow field, the
steam treated as incompressible gas in the flow field with
low inlet velocity has good agreement with that treated as
treated as incompressible gas were sufficient for predicting
the flow-induced noise.
2) The inlet velocity has remarkable influence on the
flow-induced noise. When the inlet velocity increases from
2 m/s to 4 m/s, the total level increases by about 22.5 dB,
and it’s about 7 dB from 4 m/s to 6 m/s,
coefficient increases from 0 W.(m2>K)T to 50 W-(m2KJ
exceeds 50 W-(m>K)?.
obvious that more work is needed in this area.
Acknowledgement
The authors would like to express sincere gratitude to
Hikey-Sheenray Information Technology Corporation Ltd
for ACTRAN technology support.
