基于参数化有限元方法的机翼重量预测
为飞机总体设计阶段提供一种快速而较精确的机翼重量预测方法。该方法是将参数化几何建模和参数化有限元建模方法相结合,快速地建立机翼结构有限元模型。通过应用CATIA二次开发技术,实现机翼结构布置模型的自动生成;通过运用PATRAN的PCL语言,实现结构有限元模型的自动生成;通过应用优化方法,确定出结构尺寸,进而计算出机翼重量。算例表明,本方法可快速地分析不同结构布置方案和不同材料方案的机翼重量,适用于飞机总体方案设计阶段机翼重量计算。

飞机总体设计 机翼重量 参数化建模 有限元方法 结构优化  

Having one of the largest aerial power lines
structures of the world with length as much as 95,000
km long, there is a large demand for aerial inspection of
these structures in Brazil. The work is related to the
Autonomous Robots area, in this case aerial robotics,
applied to electrical engineering and aiming to develop
a new method of long range aerial inspection of power
lines.
TheR & D project in development at ITA (Instituto
Tecnolégico de Aeronautica) is sponsored by a
Brazilian Electrical Company located in northeast of
the country. CHESF (Companhia Hidro Elétrica do Sao
Francisco) belongs to Eletrobras which is the
government electrical company. CHESF is responsible
for power lines structures with total length above
20,000 km [1].
PL (power line) inspection is the beginning activity
of the maintenance cycle and its effectiveness is
important for determining system reliability and the
maintenance costs of the electrical svstem.
Means for inspection of the technical process of
verification of the PL, its components and around,
taking in account the established standards with the
objective of detect defects and anomalies that
prejudice the PL performance, its life time and people
safety.
In the context of PL Inspection there are several
types of performing related actions, but in this work
there is a special interest in aerial inspection which is
performed by manned helicopters in the conventional
way. This traditional method is effective, but is prone
to accidents and is a high cost method for inspecting
power lines.
The main objective of the project is to provide a low
cost solution for aerial power line inspection based on
unmanned vehicles which have to be able to perform
long range flights in a relatively short time. Special
efforts are applied in order to keep the pilot on the
ground linked to the plane all the time during the
inspection.
Long Range Unmanned Aircraft System for Power Line Inspection of Brazilian Electrical System 395
2. Unmanned Aircraft System
Nowadays, the international nomenclature for the
system based on a unmanned aircraft is RPAS
(remotely piloted aircraft system) which is comprised
of three fundamental segments: aerial, communication
and ground [2], as illustrated in Fig. 1.
2.1 Aerial Segment
Consist of the plane including: arframe,
aerodynamic surfaces, propulsion, autonomous flight
control and payload, which in this application is
comprised of an imaging system and a video
transmitter for sending the captured images to the
ground segment.
The flight control system comprises autopilot,
actuators and transceiver. The autopilot can read data
available from inertial and pressure sensors, and from
the GNSS receiver. The data are processed by the
autopilot that sends control signals to the actuators and
performs the control and navigation of the aerial
platform. The flight plan is uploaded on the ground just
before the take-off of the RPAS and the actuators act
directly in the control surfaces and in the throttle ofthe
propulsion system. Although the plane is able to fly
autonomously, the RPAS concept has a piloting
requirement that consists in a human pilot monitoring
the flight all the time who is able to change the flight
plan and finish the mission if necessary for safety
reasons.
2.2 Communication Segment
It comprises the interface between the aerial segment
and the ground segment, basically by means of a data
link and a video link.
The data link is responsible for sending commands
from the ground station to the plane and receiving
telemetry on the ground station from the plane. In this
way the human pilot has the necessary situational
awareness for deciding about commands that would be
necessary to send to the plane.
Fig. 1 RPAS segments.
The video link is necessary for transmitting live
video the Data Application Station which is managed
by the PL inspector.
2.3 Ground Segment
It is comprised of the GCS (ground control station)
and the DAS (data application station). It is always
necessary that GCS is the position where the human
pilot work, getting telemetry signals from the plane and
sends commands for controlling the plane. DAS is the
position of the PL inspector who can watch the live
video,control the camera gimbal and identify the
defects.
3. Inspection Platforms
The project is defined in a very pragmatic approach
based on development prototypes [3].
The Delta II platform is shown in Fig. 2 and is a
model that was useful for integrating the avionics and
imaging systems. Fig. 3 shows the image on the display
of the GCS, highlighting the flight plan defined by
waypoints and the on line telemetry indicating the
position of the plane and other primary data.
For getting and additional experience with a typical
UAV platforms, it was used in a purchased platform
and the systems that were integrated in it. Fig. 4 shows
the Delta III platform.
In addition, aiming to comply with the high level
requirements of the project, it has been developed an
own platform named Delta IV whose development
prototype is shown in Fig. 5. This platform has to
comply with constraints related to low flight speed and
enough payload capability.
396 Long Range Unmanned Aircraft System for Power Line Inspection of Brazilian Electrical System
Fig.2 Delta II inspection platform.
Fig. 3 GCS computer display.
Fig, 4 Delta UHLinspection platform,
4. Imaging System
The studies related to the imaging system were
developed considering the specific application and
three regions were defined: safety zone, IR zone and
visible zone [4].
The safety zone was defined considering the risks of
crashes of the plane to the PL and towers. The safety
distance is referred as D, as shown in Fig. 6.
The IR Zone refers to the maximum distance for
getting images in the infra red spectrum which is
important to detect hot spots. The respective distance is
referred as D; as shown in Fig. 7.
The visible zone refers to the maximum distance
between the plane and the LT in order to capture
images with necessary quality. This distance is referred
as Ds as shown in Fig. 8.
The three zones can be superimposed highlighting
the intersection between IR zone and visible zone
where the plane has to fly in order to satisfy both
criteria, respecting the safety zone. Fig. 9 shows the
zones intersection.
Fig. 5 Delta IV inspection platform.
Fig. 6 Safety zone.
Long Range Unmanned Aircraft System for Power Line Inspection of Brazilian Electrical System 397
Fig. 7 IR zone ( D: > Dy).
Fig. 8 Visible zone ( D; > D,).
Fig. 9 Final composition.
5. Communication System
The high level requirement oflong endurance RPAS
defines a very severe constraint that is a challenge for
the project. In fact, the electrical system has PL
sections (between two substations) up to 350 km and it
is important to cover the maximum length by means of
one mission (take-off/landing cycle).
In this case the complete solution delivered by the
project team has to comprise the long range
communication requirement.
The concept illustrated in Fig. | is appropriate just
for LOS (line of sight) communication which is not the
case in this application.
The proposed solution for BLOS (beyond line of
sight) communication is illustrated in Fig. 10,
considering the usage of a tethered balloon working as
a communication relay [5].
This low cost solution extends the communication
range of the RPAS several times the LOS conception
depending on the altitude ofthe balloon, the terrain and
the performance ofcommunication equipments.
In addition to the communication relay functionality,
the tethered balloon can be used as a Pseudo UAV for
communication test purposes [6].
The idea is to replace the plane by one tethered
balloon equipped with the communication system
designed for being integrated in the plane. Together
with the communication equipments of the GCS it is
possible to validate the communication link for
especially remote positions in order to ensure that the
RPAS concept will be complied for the specific
mission [7, 8].
Fig. 11 illustrates the usage of the balloon as a
Pseudo UAV.
Fig. 10 Long range communication solution.
辩簪 …言 LOS — Tx/Baloon / Rx/Car
Fig. 11 Ballon as a pseudo UAV.
398 Long Range Unmanned Aircraft System for Power Line Inspection of Brazilian Electrical System
6. Conclusions
The intended application presents high complexity
considering several aspects of the project.
6.1 Positioning System
The application requires flights with low altitude and
proximity to the power lines leading to an additional
requirement regarding GNSS accuracy.
In addition, the topography is quite relevant for the
flight plan because if it is not appropriately considered
the plane can be guided to a crash to the terrain.
6.2 Imaging System
Considering a low cost approach for the camera
gimbal, it is necessary to fly inside a very limited zone
in order to capture ant transmit images in both visible
and IR spectrum. The corresponding distance is very
short and leads to sub-item A where the positioning
system requirements were discussed.
Another requirement related to the imaging system
is the maximum speed of the plane which has to be less
than 60-70 km/h. This requirement is controversial
considering that the low cost inspection would be more
cost effective with high speed of flight. It is necessary
to balance and optimize flight speed and images’
quality.
6.3 Communication System
It is necessary to pay special attention to the
requirements related to RPAS concept and inspection
live video regarding long range communication
necessarily BLOS.
The immediate solution based on satellite
communication implies in expensive communication
bandwidth for live video leading to a low cost solution
based on tethered balloon which is not outstanding
because the altitude is not so high that can be
compatible to dimensions of Fresnel zones. Anyway
the proposed solution is a very interesting trade-off
aiming the effectiveness and costs as drivers of the
analysis.
6.4 Balloon Based Test Methodology
The solution based on balloon working as a Pseudo
UAV has been used for validating the communication
equipments and links obtaining a method for
measuring the communication capability of the system
for long range communication without risks normally
associated to high distances between the plane and the
GCS.
Acknowledgments
The author would like to thank to Companhia Hidro
Elétrica do Sso Francisco and Agéncia Nacional
Energia Elétrica for the sponsoring of the R&D project.
