宇航元器件长期贮存及寿命评价方法研究
现代武器装备及卫星单机对元器件提出了长期贮存要求。本文结合宇航元器件贮存概念及相关规定，提出了影响元器件装机后贮存寿命的关键要素为元器件属性（结构、材料、工艺等）、贮存环境（温度、湿度、振动、电场、化学腐蚀等）和原有缺陷的增殖程度，并对元器件长期贮存寿命给出了基于单一机理的恒定应力加速寿命试验评价方法流程。

宇航元器件 贮存寿命 评价方法  

1 Introduction
Vehicle speed control is an important topic for both
conventional cruise control systems and recently developed
adaptive cruise control(ACC) systems! 2. With aid of an
on board road slope database in combination with a GPS
unit, information about the road geometry ahead can be
extracted. The velocity trajectory that weights trip time and
fuel consumption can be optimized by using this
look-ahead road information. A dynamic programming
approach is taken to obtain minimizing fuel consumption
solutions for a number of driving scenarios on shorter road
sections in Ref. [3]. Optimal speed profiles for heavy trucks
driving important test road profiles are presented in Ref. [4].
The method is based on an analytic solution for linear road
segments, and the continuous connection of such solutions.
This reduces the dimension of the problem significantly
compared with other methods. Predictive cruise control is
investigated through computer simulations’, but
constructing an optimizing controller that works on board
in a real environment puts additional demands on the
system in terms of robustness and complexity. A predictive
cruise controller is developed where discrete DP is used to
numerically solve the optimal control problem in Ref. [6].
An improved dynamic programming algorithm!” where the
search space is reduced by a preprocessing algorithm is
realized and evaluated in actual experiments.
The speed control in the acceleration process is the key
part of the cruise control. The application of Pontryagin’s
maximum principle and dynamic programming for vehicle
acceleration control with minimum fuel consumption are
described in Ref. [8]. With the maximum principle, the
consumption model yields optimal accelerations with a
linearly decreasing acceleration as a function of the
velocity. Dynamic programming is implemented with a
backward recursion on a specially chosen distance grid.
This grid enables the calculation of realistic gear shifting
behavior during vehicle accelerations. These two
algorithms used to solve the optimal acceleration problem
arc complicated.
The acceleration control with minimum energy
consumption for battery electric vehicle(EV) has not been
reported. In this paper, a torque-based acceleration control
with minimum energy consumption for electric vehicle(EV)
is presented. In EV, the accurate torque control for traction
motor can be achieved by field oriented control(FOC)
method. The permanent magnet synchronous motor
(PMSM) drive system is modeled to favor over a detailed
consumption map. The optimal torque versus speed curve
in the acceleration process is obtained by analytical
algorithm, which is much simpler than maximum principle
and DP algorithms. In the time limitation case, the electric
motor torque demanded is set up by adding a penalty
function to fast track the target vehicle speed.
To assess the performance of the above analytical
algorithm, the dynamic programming(DP) solutions for
different acceleration time are used as benchmarks for
comparisons.
the vehicle, the motor, the inverter and the battery model
are described. In section 3, the analytical model is proposed
to solve the optimal acceleration problem. The optimal
acceleration control solved by DP in different acceleration
time is described in section 4. The simulation and
experiment results are shown in section 5, and the
conclusions of this research are in section 6.
2 Dynamic Modeling
2.1 Vehicle model
The force needed when driving on a sloped road in an
EV can be expressed as
coefficient; a is the slope angle; Cp is the dimensionless
conversion factor; dy/dt is the vehicle acceleration; and p is
the air density.
2.2 Efficiency model of PMSM
The flux equation can be torque expressed as
The electromagnetic torque equation is
research methods of this paper are also adapted to study the
interior PMSM(IPMSM) and induction motor(IM). In the
with the d-axis current.
expressed as
electromagnetic power P.. The electromagnetic power,
which is the sum of the mechanical loss Pm,stray loss Pq
and output power P,, can be expressed as
realized by controlling the d-axis current i;=0 which is
relations of power loss, electromagnetic torque and the
electric angular velocity can be expressed as
The input power can be deduced as
The maximum torque of the PMSM in drive mode needs
to satisfy the following conditions:
where Temax is maximum electromagnetic torque, and Py, is
the rated power of the PMSM.
2.3 Efficiency model of inverter
To accurately evaluate the inverter efficiency, one must
have well-developed component models and an inverter
switching algorithm. Otherwise, an accurate evaluation can
only be obtained by actual tests. However, by making some
assumptions and simplifying the device models, the
simplified device models is employed: a pure resistor for
power MOSFETs and a voltage source in series with a
resistor for Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors(IGBTs) and
diodes. In this paper, the loss of a three-phase
MOSFET-based full-bridge inverter is discussed, and the
space vector pulse width modulation(SVPWM) is adopted
by this inverter.
(1) Conduction loss. The simplified models for the power
MOSFET and diode are expressed as
where Vy, and Vy represent the on-state voltage drops of
a MOSFET and diode, respectively; 从 is the diode voltage
drops at the zero-current condition; Rg and Ry are the
resistive elements of MOSFET and diode; and T is the
device current.
Eq. (12) expresses the conduction losses for the
MOSFET and the anti-parallel diode, respectively:
where m; is the per unit fundamental stator voltage, ￠ is the
load power factor angle, and Tm is the peak value of the
sinusoidal wave.
diode. Because the SVPWM is adopted and the MOSFET
conducts current bidirectionally, the diodes conduct only in
the dead time. Considering the dead time effect, the
conduction loss of the MOSFETs and the anti-parallel
diodes in the three-phase inverter can be simplified as
where t is the dead time, and ￠, is the period time of the
SVPWM.
The conduction loss of the inverter is
F, = F mosFETs + F ps: (14)
loss of hard switch circuit is
where P:v,.onand P:w.otr are the turn on loss and the turn off
expressed as
where the relationship between I, and i,, Te is as
The loss of the inverter can be expressed by the
electromagnetic torque and electrical angular speed of the
PMSM as
up is defined as the battery terminal voltage and i, is the
outflow current.
Fig. 3. Generalized ECM for lithium batteries
Uy=Uo,一兮口—uc,@n
where u, is defined as the voltage across the RC network,
can be expressed as
where Pin and Pi,are functions of the electromagnetic
torque and electrical angular velocity of the PMSM
respectively, as shown in Eqs. (9) and (19)
by Analytical Algorithm
speed to a higher speed. The target function is as follows:
When the electric vehicle accelerate from v, to v;, the
increasing kinetic energy is
= 皇'′′(Vf2 一 M02). (27)
The increasing energy Ey is only related to the initial
speed vo and the final speed vy, and equals to the work of
the acceleration force. If the two speeds are certain, the
increasing energy is constant. The above optimal problem
can also be described as
The discretion of Eq. (28) is
respectively.
The total battery output energy can be expressed as
From Eq. (30), if the maximum efficiency of output
energy in every step is achieved, the minimum battery
output energy in every increasing kinetic energy can be
obtained, the sum of which is the optimal battery output
energy. Thus, the global optimal problem can be turned into
one which to seek the maximum kinetic energy efficiency.
According to the vehicle resistance equation, the kinetic
energy output efficiency can be expressed as
achieve the maximum kinetic energy output efficiency. The
optimum electromagnetic torque curve changes with the
change of road condition. With the assumption that the
rolling resistance coefficient and the drag coefficient are
constant, the optimal electromagnetic torques at different
slope angles are shown in Fig. 4. It can be seen from Fig. 4,
the larger the slope angle is, the closer the optimum torque
curve is to the maximum motor electromagnetic torque.
一史一MaxX7,
In section 3.1, the optimum acceleration control with
minimum battery energy to accelerate to the target speed is
discussed. However, the acceleration time is not considered,
without which the driver’s demand may not be met in some
situation. This section will study the optimal acceleration
control with the acceleration time. As the given target speed
is v{?), the problem can be described to solve the
electromagnetic torque to make the following objective
function minimum:
where k, is the weighting factor of penalty function, and
larger k, can shorten the acceleration time and track the
target vehicle speed more fast.
In accordance with section 3.1, the discretion equation
can be expressed as
From the above equation, the electromagnetic torques in
different k, can be obtained on the level road, as shown in
Fig. 5. The motor speed curves corresponding to the time
are shown in Fig. 6.
The acceleration control at different acceleration time
can be achieved by controlling 户 and a good acceleration
control can be achieved. The weighting factor k, only
reflects the case to follow the reference speed and it cannot
control acceleration time accurately.
under no constraint 「
The analytical nature enables one to get a physical
insight in the control problem. Dynamic programming(DP)
is very easy to implement and can easily handle all sorts of
constraints and dynamics. The optimal energy acceleration
control is solved by the analytical model in section 3.1. The
problem will be solved by dynamic programming in this
section, and, indirectly, to prove the conclusions of section
3.1.
The increasing kinetic energy in every step is AE, and
Ex=NAE,, the speed in every step can be expressed as
where R is the vehicle kinetic energy in step J.
The cost function is defined as
where Ebay is the j-step output energy of the battery, and can
be expressed as
output power.
The system constraint is
where T,; is the system control variable, and Ty is the
maximum regenerative braking torque.
The discretion state transition model is as
where a; is the vehicle acceleration and is expressed as
The optimum electromagnetic torque on the level road
solved by DP is shown in Fig. 7, which is similar to that
solve by analytical model(AM).
一 一 Max. Te
seek the optimum value. However, if the vehicle’s load
conditions change, the global optimum value cannot be
solved. The DP algorithm is used to solve optimum
problem in dynamic system. The drawback is that the
computation consumption is large and hard to use in
real-time computation.
4.2 Optimal energy acceleration control
under time constraint
Acceleration control under no constraint consumes large
time to the target speed. In this section, the optimal energy
acceleration control under time constraint is discussed.
The acceleration time is divided into N steps with the
step size At, and t,=NAt.
The cost function is defined as follows:
f一1
The system constraint is
The discretion state transition model is
~ 日 一 Max.Te
corresponding to the time is shown in Fig. 9.
The optimal acceleration control algorithms of the
PMSM are studied in simulation and experiment. The
experiment are carried out by a four-wheel hub motor
driven electric vehicle.
in Table 1. The vehicle and battery parameters are shown in
Table 2. Parameters of electric vehicle and battery
Frontal area 4/m’ 14
Dimensionless coefficient Cp 0.4
section 4.
shown in Table 3.
and the battery output energy are shown in Table 4.
Table 3. Acceleration properties in different acceleration
pedal opening
Accelerator pedal Acceleration Acceleration Battery output
opening a/% time #,/s distance s,/m energy EhstykJ
20 252.05 2115.8 462.28
40 42.47 375.60 146.44
60 20.72 169.05 108.77
80 13.94 110.69 101.78
100 10.39 81.06 99.20
Table 4. Acceleration properties in different &,
Weighting Acceleration Acceleration Battery output
factor 无 time fa/s distance s,/m energy Eoaty/ KJ
0 (Optimum) 19.27 101.79 93.87
0.5 15.46 96.83 94.23
2 12.89 90.52 95.54
5 11.17 84.91 97.83
parts: the rolling resistance loss, the wind drag loss and the
power loss of the electric drive system. A longer traveling
distance, higher speed and the low efficiency of the electric
drive system will increase the loss respectively. Therefore,
the vehicle speed, traveling distance and the efficiency of
the drive system should be taken into consideration in the
optimal acceleration control.
Acceleration time Acceleration distance Battery output energy
Ls Sam Eon/k]
11 82.73 97.72
13 89.09 95.50
15 94.74 94.63
17 93.95 94.33
19.3 (Optimum) 101.79 93.87
The energy consumptions in the above three acceleration
control strategies are compared in Fig. 18. In the same
acceleration time, the battery output energy in the constant
accelerator pedal opening control is significantly greater
than that in the acceleration control calculated by analytical
model and DP algorithm. Although there are some
differences in the torques calculated by analytical algorithm
and DP solution, as shown in Fig. 11 and Fig. 12, the
energy consumptions in both algorithms are almost the
electromagnetic torque of PMSM under field oriented
same due to the high efficiency of PMSM. The acceleration
torque can be easily calculated by the analytical model, and
it can be used for real-time control. However, it is difficult
to control the acceleration time accurately in analytical
algorithm. The global optimal acceleration control can be
achieved by DP algorithm with precise acceleration time
constraint, but the DP algorithm consumes a large amount
of computation time.
incorporates torque control has been proposed. The optimal
acceleration control solved by analytical model can be
implemented to minimize the battery energy consumption
in unit kinetic energy increment, which is simple and
effective. For the case of time-bound, in order to achieve a
robust, less computationally expensive, a penalty function
is introduced to change the vehicle speed tracking
performance.
achieved by dynamic programming (DP) algorithm with
precise acceleration time constraint, but the DP algorithm
needs to consume a large amount of computation time. The
DP solutions for different acceleration time are presented to
assess the performance of the above analytical algorithm.
(4) Experiment results show that the energy
consumptions in analytical algorithm and DP solution are
almost the same and the required battery energy with
optimal acceleration control strategy is greatly reduced
compared with that in the constant pedal opening condition.
