数字闭环石英挠性加速度计信号检测技术
数字闭环石英挠性加速度计可以有效地解决传统模拟式加速度计在模数转换中引起的精度损失问题，而数字式加速度计的精度主要取决于差动电容检测环节。阐述了数字式加速度计的工作原理，重点设计了差动电容检测方法，利用单载波调制与数字自相关解调技术构建完整的数字式加速度计信号检测方案。搭建数字式加速度计原理样机，对其进行0 g/±1 g稳定性测试，得到数字式加速度计0 g/±1 g零偏稳定性分别为17.5950μg、19.3637μg、20.7153μg。测试结果表明，当前的数字式加速度计精度达到了模拟式加速度计精度量级，有效验证了该方案的可行性及正确性。

自相关检测 加速度计 数字闭环 差动电容 调制解调  

差动电容;_调制解调
0 Introduction
As a kind of typical capacitive accelerometer, the
limit precision of quartz flexible accelerometer is
determined by the sensitivity of differential capacitance
detection circuit. However, considering the limitation
of the capacitive accelerometer, which includes the
processing technology and the volume, the header
static capacitance is about pF level(10-2F),moreover,
the capacitance variation of the sensitive mass
displacement produced by acceleration is more
exiguous, generally is at the fF (10-5F) or aF (10~"F)
level. As a result, the header output signal is so weak
that it is easily affected by the various kinds of
parasitic capacitance. How to detect the header tiny
capacitance is one of the key problems of the capacitive
accelerometer.
Currently, several methods are used in the
capacitance detection, including capacitance to
frequency conversion [2,Capacitance Bridge'?!, switch
capacitance method, modulation and demodulation 51,
etc. Among which the modulation and demodulation
method is also divided into single carrier dual-channel
amplifier and double carrier single-channel amplifier!
Compared with other methods, the single carrier and
dual-channel modulation scheme has more notable
advantages on low noise, high linearity, weak
affection and simple design, so it is widely used in
differential capacitance detection circuit of accelerometer.
Such as LB309,single carrier modulation technology
was used in current mirror differential capacitance
detection circuit, which through two PNP current
mirrors and a current inverter to realize the header
capacitance detection.
High precision inertial navigation system puts
forward higher performance on the quartz flexible
accelerometer. Due to the traditional analog quartz
flexible accelerometer needs an external analog to
digital conversion circuit to provide digital information
for the navigation computer; the precision loss is
inevitably produced in the conversion!”. Based on the
digital closed-loop detecting technology, the digital
quartz flexible accelerometer (DCLA) can effectively
solve the above problem and output digital information
directly. As a new kind detection scheme, how to
realize the precise capacitance and signal detection of
the DCLA are of great significance in improving the
system precision.
1 System scheme design
1.1 System overall scheme
As shown in Fig.l, the DCLA is mainly
composed of mechanical header components and
digital closed loop detection circuit[821,、,The latter is
controlled by the FPGA, which includes differential
capacitance detection circuit, A/D conversion circuit,
digital signal processing circuit, D/A conversion
circuit and feedback driver circuit. It is obvious that
the differential capacitance detection circuit is in the
front end of signal,which plays a vital role on the
whole detection system.
When the quartz flexible pendulum is sensitive to
the external acceleration, it will produce a capacitance
change, and then the change of capacitance will be
converted into the amplitude proportional to the
current or voltage signal through the differential
capacitance detection circuit.
1.2 Scheme of capacitance detection
Quartz flex accelerometer is so easily affected by
the parasitic capacitance that the output signal to noise
ratio is rather low. Therefore, in order to improve the
detection sensitivity,in this paper,the single carrier
modulation and demodulation technique is used in the
differential capacitance detection scheme.
Figure 2 is the principle of the differential
capacitance detection circuit Among which Fig.2 (a)
is the common used scheme, instead, Fig.2 (b) is
the scheme configured in the digital accelerometer.
Through the differential function, the circuit can
convert the weak capacitance signal into the amplitude
of high frequency carrier signal.
By all appearances, a differential operational
amplifier is used in Fig.2 (b) to realize the same
function in Fig.2 (a), which adopts three operational
amplifiers. On one hand, the configuration of Fig.2(b)
can effectively reduce the error which brought by the
two dual signal parameters mismatch; on the other
hand, it is conducive to realize the miniaturization of
the system.
2 Analysis of carrier wave
As is shown in Fig.2(b), modulation waveform is
produced by the FPGA, through the D/A converter,
output the analog waveform on the movable plate of
the header differential capacitance. Here carrier signal
is determined by the waveform, frequency, amplitude
and stability.
2.1 Carrier waveform
For the capacitive accelerometer,the commonly
used carrier signals are sine wave, square wave and
triangle wave. As shown in Tabl.1, there is a detailed
comparison about the frequency, bandwidth and
realization of each carrier signal, respectively. It can
be seen that selecting the triangle as a modulation
waveform has an advantage that the differential signal
is a square wave, which facilitates the digital
demodulation subsequently.
Parameter Sin wave Square wave Triangle wave
Frequency Singleness Complex Complex
Bandwidth Low >10 times of signal High
Realization Complex Easy Easy
2.2 Carrier frequency
Usually,for the fixed capacitance detection,the
higher the frequency, the smaller the capacitive
reactance, and for the quartz flex accelerometer
system, the small capacitive reactance is beneficial to
improve the system measurement sensitivity. Due to
the high impedance of the header, high frequency
signal should be used as an incentive in order to
reduce the output impedance. Additionally, in terms of
the noise, high frequency carrier signal is the best
choice to reduce the noise influence021. However, with
the increase of carrier frequency, it will put forward
higher request on the operation amplifier, such as the
SR(slew rate) and the GBW(gain bandwidth product).
Therefore, the selection of carrier frequency should
consider the following points.
(1) Carrier frequency is associated with the
output noise power spectrum. Theoretical analysis
shows that higher carrier frequency can reduce the
thermal noise of the capacitance detection circuit
effectively. When the carrier frequency is set within
the range of 1kHz to 1 MHz, the square root spectral
density of voltage and current is the least.
(2) AD sampling frequency is also influenced by
the carrier frequency. Under the Shannon sampling
theorem, we often choose sampling frequency as 10
times of the signal frequency for the engineering
practice. After the differential function of the carrier
signal, the pulse along is useless, in other words, it is
not the whole cycle sampling points are valid.
Therefore, in order to ensure adequate signal to noise
ratio, sampling points should be increased in
appropriately. In return, the larger carrier frequency is
bad for the increasing of A/D sampling frequency, so
the carrier frequency should also not be large.
Through the comprehensive consideration, the carrier
frequency is set as 100 kHz.
2.3 Carrier amplitude
The charge electrostatic force exists in the space
between a certain distances,opposites charges attract
and like charges repel. While the movable plate of the
quartz flex accelerometer is loaded with a high
frequency carrier signal, the movable and fixed plate
will store the same amount of opposite charges,
respectively. Because of the potential difference
between the two plates, there is an electrostatic force
exists. When the carrier amplitude is greater than a
certain value, the electrostatic force will exceed the
scope of the stiffness of elastic beams, and then the
movable plate will be close to the fixed plate.
Consequently, in order to avoid the phenomenon of the
electrostatic absorption, the voltage which applied on the
movable plate must be controlled in a certain range.
On the other hand, increasing the carrier amplitude
can improve the output voltage in the case of other
conditions unchanged,thus improving the sensitivity
and the SNR of the whole system. Therefore, it should
try to improve the carrier amplitude in the limited
scope. Notice that the differential signal amplitude
needs to meet the range of A/D converter, so the
carrier amplitude is set as 3.38V.
2.4 Carrier stability
The carrier signal stability includes frequency
stability and amplitude stability, and the former will
directly affect the output amplitude due to the
frequency characteristics of each circuit module. For a
practical circuit, the carrier frequency fluctuation is
small, and as long as the gain remains the same
within the scope of carrier frequency change, the
effects of carrier frequency can be ignored. In fact, in
the differential capacitance detection circuit, the
mismatch of two dual parameters,such as the initial
capacitance values, will increase the noise influence.
And the more serious mismatch of the carrier signal,
the greater influence of the noise and the lower
resolution of the system. Therefore, for the purpose of
improving the accelerometer noise performance, the
first method is increasing the cartier amplitude to
improve the SNR of the capacitance detection carrier.
The second method is that minimizing the initial
differential capacity which caused by the machining
error, the latter can be compensated by the method of
paralleling a certain value capacitance with the
corresponding pin in the external. The third method is
that trying to improve the matching degree of charge
amplifier, by choosing a high accuracy of the
feedback resistor or capacitor. ′
As is shown in Fig.3,the amplitude fluctuation
of the triangle is basically in the range of 0.01 V.
ee ee ee ee ee rere eee etre een Leet gon resentation rma)
As shown in Fig.2 (b), modulated by the triangle
wave, the differential capacitance circuit output is a
square wave, whose phase and frequency are in
consistent with the input triangle wave strictly. In
order to obtain an accurate output voltage, a better
linearity of the triangle wave is necessary. The output
waveform of the differential circuit is as shown in
Fig.4. |
If the positive slope of the triangle wave is dUVdt
and the absolute value of the decline slope is dUywdt,
then the relationship between the output voltage
amplitude and the header capacitance is given as
formula (1):
caused by the acceleration can be effectively detected
through the differential capacitance detection circuit.
When there is an input positive acceleration, the
quartz flexible pendulum will deviate from the
equilibrium position. Might as well C;>C,, the difference
voltage amplitude of the square wave is as U,(#). On
the contrary, when there is a reverse acceleration
input, might as well C, <C, the difference output
voltage amplitude is as Uz(#). Consequently, as long
as the amplitude of the square voltage is detected, the
value and the direction of the input acceleration can
be distilled. :
Based on the above analysis, through the triangle
wave modulation function, the header capacitance
variation can be modulated into the high frequency
square wave, whose amplitude is a function of the
capacitance variation. Here a method of the weak
signal detection should be adopted to extract the output
weak signal which is aliased in the complex noise.
As a kind of effective means to extract the weak
signal from strong noise, correlation detection is based
on the characteristic that the signal is not related with
. the noise. Through the auto correlation and cross
correlation method to detect the weak signal. Might as
well there are two continuous smooth and ergodic
random processes, are x(t) and y(r), so the definition
of the cross correlation function of random function is
can be given as formula (2)001:
It can be seen that when using a pure reference
signal for cross correlation, the noise influence can be
effectively reduced. So the output weak signal can be
detected even if the input SNR is very low.
For the output signal of differential capacitance
circuit, the digital demodulation can be realized by
extracting the difference value of the positive and
negative cycle of the differential square?. The sampling
process is as shown in Fig.5.
In the process, the output signal is converted into
digital quantity through the A/D circuit. that
in each half cycle of the square wave, the number of
sample data is n, the demodulation output can be
obtained after subtraction, just set the output square
amplitude is 1,thus in each time the demodulation
output is AS:
Compared the formula(2) with (3), it can be seen
that the minus of the positive and negative square
wave signal is equal to the product of this differential
square wave and another square wave with the same
frequency and phase. The digital demodulation process
actually achieves the correlation detection of output
and reference square wave.
4 System design and implementation
According to the above signal detection scheme,
the prototype of the DCLA is built in our research,
which is as shown in Fig.6. According to GJB1037 -
2004 method, the scale factor of DCLA is acquired
test, and the scale factor is 3 557 LSB/g, obviously, it
can be seen that the system can effectively distinguish
the value and the direction within the scope of the +1 g
acceleration.
Bias stability is as a general index to measure the
accelerometer accuracy performance. Figure 7 shows
the 0 g/+1 g stability test results. The results show that
the bias stability of the 0 g position is 17.595 0 pg,
the bias stability of the 1g position is 19.363 7 ug, and
the bias stability of the ~1 g position is 20.7153 pg.
Fig.7 Experimental results of 0 g/+1 g stability
5 Conclusion
In this paper, the signal processing scheme of the
DCLA is investigated and validated. With the single
carrier modulation and demodulation technology, the
header meter differential capacitance was achieved by
the triangle wave modulation, moreover, the common
mode interference was restrained to some extent. The
output weak signal of the header meter was
successfully detected by adopting the digital correlative
demodulation method. To build the system prototype,
under the condition of 0 g/+1 g stability test, the
experimental results are 17.595 0 g,19.363 7 pg,
20.715 3 pg, respectively. The results show that the
signal detection method can effectively achieve the
acceleration detection, and currently, the precision of
the DCLA is basically equal to the analog
accelerometer, which verifies the correctness of the
signal detection method.
