数据链通信系统安全性评估与适航设计
空中交通服务由通信、导航、监视和空中交通管制等4个子系统组成。数据链通信用于空中交通服务，可以维护空中交通秩序和促进空中交通安全。数据链通信系统是通信、导航、监视（CNS）和空中交通管制系统的基础和关键，不仅能对雷达无法覆盖地区的飞机进行通信、导航，而且在高密度飞行区域也有广泛的应用前景，

通信系统 数据链 安全性评估 空中交通管制系统 空中交通服务 设计 适航 空中交通安全  

Nomenclature
Cy-skin friction coefficient, f-mass flow coeffi-
cient, H-model height and width, M-Mach number,
工 .-distance from the forward edge cowl up to the
forward edge of lateral walls, p..-free stream static
pressure, p= p/p. -relative static pressure, p.-free
stream flow total pressure, p,-Pitot pressure, p,=
po/ p.relative total pressure, Re-unit Reynolds
number, T,-total temperature, U..-free stream flow
velocity, x-longitudinal coordinate, y-transversal
coordinate, 司 boundary layer thickness, 6* -dis-
placement thickness, 6" * -momentum thickness, ?-
total pressure recovery coefficient.
0 Introduction
In recent years the increasing attention is focused
on study of opportunities of three-dimensional inlets
in connection with development of highly effective
hypersonic vehicles for various purposes. Applica-
tion of a three-dimensional inlet can be more effec-
tive from the point of view of reduction of wave drag
at non-design speeds of flight and thermal protection
of compression surfaces of inlets. However, start of
the three-dimensional inlets at non-design modes
and an opportunity of its adjustment are inconven-
ient owing to a spatial configuration of compression
front at development of a three-dimensional inlets, consist
in a large non-uniformity of the flow at a combustion
chamber entrance and strong influence of a thick bound-
ary layer at installation of an engine under a fuselage,
A special attention is given to three-dimensional in-
l6:tS〔1_2亡_ 9 which are constructed on the basis of a combi-
nation of an axisymmetric flows so that those cross-sec-
tions of capture flow are compressed in converging di-
rections. Inlets of such type have been named conver-
gent inlets”), They allow obtaining compact sections of
an entrance in a channel and inlet throat. Construction
of a convergent inlets was carried out with gas-dynamic
designing methods by means of sector cuttings from in-
ternal supersonic flow converging to an axis of symme-
tryt*!. In the paperr5] designing of an convergent inlets
was carried out by a spatial combination of flat flow
with an oblique shock wave of a general spatial location,
Other configuration of an three-dimensional inlets,
which also can be related to a class of an convergent in-
lets, is presented in the paperrt1.、 The surfaces, forming
walls of the channel and cowl,had swept leading edges
(45%), and angles of an inclination of the compression
surfaces were insignificant (3°~ 6°). The part of air
flow of the inlet is divided into several areas by means ot
the three struts,which also have swept-forward and
swept-back leading edges of the walls. Process of com-
pression is completed in the inter-strut channels. The
struts could be used for a fuel injection. It is necessary
to note that such configuration differs by smaller com-
pactness of an entrance, than an axisymmetric conver-
gent inlet,but thus such inlets permit the big flexibility
in formation of the area of a throat and its adjustment,
Researches of an three-dimensional air inlets of such
type were also carried out in CIAM'",
Experimental data for inlets in a range of hyperson-
ic speeds of a flow is of particular interest since such re-
searches are extremely limited and obtained on the mod-
els of small sizes, Last circumstance strongly reduces
possibilities of simulation of viscous flow at an entrance
in an inlet model.
The purpose of the present work has consisted in
obtaining of systematically experimental data about
characteristics and a flow field in the channel of model of
an adjustable inlet, definition of its mass flow rate coef-
ficients from the pressure measurement at the exit of the
flowmeter, and total pressure recovery at the exit of the
ence of a flow control on realization of design inflowing
in the channel of inlet (inlet start).
In the process of the tests, main attention has been
given to measurement of parameters of a flow in the
model throat by means of the total pressure rake, and
also investigation of structure and characteristics of a
boundary layer before model on the wall of wind-tunnel
and on the base of model before the model entrance.
1 Experimental model and technique
Model. In the work, the three-dimensional inlet
constructed on the basis of the spatial combination of
plane flows is considered, The geometrical configuration
of such inlet was calculated in accordance with the
work!? . The internal channel and the throat of inlet
model were formed by the profiled walls, which consis-
ted of the three spatially situated wedges. The ramp on
the base of model had constant angle 1. 5°. The lateral
walls of the inlet model were changeable and had both
swept-forward and swept-back leading edges with angle
45°. The model height H was 120mm. For leveling
flow and measurement of mass flow ratio, the measur-
ing section and the total pressure rake was installed be-
hind the inlet channel. Adjustment of the inlet was car-
ried out with the help of longitudinal moving of the cowl
with double swept (Fig. 1).
The model of inlet was tested in a core of flow so
that before entrance in the channel the thickness of the
boundary layer equaled to zero (6 二 0),and on the
wind-tunnel wall that allowed to simulate a thick
boundary layer, which is being formed on forebody of
vehicle before inlet entrance, using boundary layer on
the wall of wind-tunnel. Measurements were carried out
at two positions of the cowl when the distance from the
forward cowl edge up to the forward edge of the lateral
walls equaled to 319mm and 369mm (see Fig. 1). At
the test of the inlet, measurements of distribution of
static pressure on the cowl, on the central body and on
the lateral walls were performed. Besides, the Pitot
pressure across height of the model throat was meas-
ured. Measurement of total and static pressure at exit of
the constant section has allowed obtaining the mass flow
rate of the inlet. Schlieren and soot-oil visualization
were carried out. These measurements and flow visual-
ization have allowed determining start of the inlet and
realization of design flow in the throat and the channel
tunnel, the model was below border of the optical win-
dow and the inlet entrance was invisible. Achievement
of start or non-start of the inlet can be determined only
on approximation of the head shock waves, in visible re-
gion above the model.
tested in the blow down wind-tunnel T-313 at Mach
numbers from 1. 74 to 6.06 and unit Reynolds numbers
Re=38.6X10°~20.1X10° 1/m. The wind-tunnel has
the size of working section 600mm X 600mm X 2000mm
and duration of operation mode from 3 to 6min, Param-
eters of the flow in the wind-tunnel are presented in Ta-
ble 1.
Table 1 Parameters of flow in the wind-tunnel
表 1 风洞流场参数
M 1.74 2.00 2.51 3.01 4,02 5.05 6,06
AMPa 0.19 0.21 0.24 0.42 1.04 0.81 0.82
T./K 280 275 284 290 280 420 460
ReX 105/mt! 20,1 25.6 27.8 35.7 56,1 14.3 8.6
A numerous methodological researches conducted
within the all range of Mach numbers showed good
quality of the flow in the operation section of the wind-
tunnel. The degree of non-homogeneousness of Mach
numbers does not exceed 0. 08 %. The root-mean-
square’s non-uniformity of total pressure and total tem-
perature amounts to about 0.4% and 1%, correspond-
ingly. Level of flow turbulence does not exceed 0. 86%.
The model tests on the wall of wind-tunnel under
conditions of the thick boundary layer have in mind ne-
cessity of definition of boundary layer characteristics be-
fore the inlet. The Pitot pressure rake and measurement
of static pressure on the wall were used for this pur-
pose. The rake was installed so that the coordinate
(from the model base) of measuring tube could be
measured with accuracy not worse than 0. 05mm. Inte-
gral parameters of the boundary layer were calculated
basing on these data. At the processing and analysis of
the boundary layer characteristics, well-known and
verified relations for a compressible streamst'?' based
Wii applitalivil CULIIPLTDSIULIT 1ILULLIPI TOD VIC AELD LCLLLL
density) transformations have been usedL12] .
Uncertainties, Many interdependent factors affect-
ing measurements of flow parameters in channel and in-
let characteristics, and it is difficult to quantify the over-
all measurement accuracy. However, the sources of un-
certainty due to the model geometry, free stream pa-
rameter, pressure and temperature measurement were
identified and analyzed,and their influence on the over-
all data fidelity was assessed on the basis of large num-
ber of measurements in different runs. The interdepend-
ent nature of the various sources of uncertainty, both
systematic and random, makes any estimate of the over-
all error difficult to ascertain, Simply to evaluate a max-
imum error for the measurements, such as occurs at the
measurement in the large range of flow parameters (dif-
ferent Mach number or the positional error along the in-
let channel) would be quite misrepresentative of the ma-
jority of the flow field. Therefore, the estimated major
uncertainties at two measuring positions (“best” case
and “worst” case) within the flow field have to be de-
termined. By simple summing the individual uncertainty
components, it could be concluded that the peak overall
uncertainties are of the order of 0. 5 % in the free stream
and less than 3% ~4% in the external regions and at
the calculation of the mass flow ratio,
The overall uncertainty in the flow parameters were
estimated by root-sum-square《95 % confidence interval)
for the systematic bias and precision uncertainties, The
uncertainty in the Mach number was evaluated at each
point in the flow field. This Mach number uncertainty
includes only the propagation of pressure measurement
uncertainty and not errors attributable to probe interfer-
ence, misalignment or interpolation, The results indica-
ted that the uncertainty can becomes excessive for low
local parameters of the flow. Results of these calcula-
tions are presented in Table 2.
Table 2 Uncertainty of measured parameters
表 2 测量参数不确定度
Parameter p pp Tt M Re x U my f 【
Uncertainty/ % 0.44 0,28 1.12 0.83 2.6 0.09 1.3 2.88 4.23 1.55
The most probable maximum error of mass flow
ratio f can be estimated approximately 4. 23%. This er-
ror could be attributed to a) flow non-uniformity in
measured section of the nozzle; b) the error in the
measurement of total temperatures in the same cross
section; ￠) the accuracy of the measured free stream dy-
the walls during test; e) the error in the data recording
systems. But the above mentioned error is a fixed error
that occurs in all the tests, and hence comparison of
mass flow ratio is free of this error because it is the
difference of two f values.
2 Results and discussion
2. 1 Characteristics of the boundary layer
Measurements of the boundary layer have been car-
ried out on the base of model and on distance of 25mm
downstream from the leading edge of model. In this
case, the leading edge of model without a gap was atta-
ched to the bottom wall of working section of wind-tun-
nel, however the leading edge of the basis of the model
formed the forward facing step with height about 1mm
due to its bluntness.
Results of Pitot pressure measurement in the
boundary layer have shown that in all range of Mach
numbers, the boundary layer was turbulent. Velocity
profiles of the boundary layer (Fig. 2) have been ob-
tained by means of these data. The analysis of the ve-
locity profiles has shown that they are well described by
the power law U=U/U.. 一 ( v/ MY" with an exponent
1/n 二 1/7 一 1/19《Fig. 3(a)) and the logarithmic law of
“wall-wake” (Fig. 3(b)). One can see that value of ex-
ponent n corresponds or exceeds typical magnitude for
turbulent boundary layers.
fullness of the velocity profile of the boundary layer, It
can be seen that the velocity profiles has distinctive two-
layer character at M==3. 01. In this case, the parameter
n of external and internal (near-surface) part of the
boundary layer essentially differs (Mier <7Zexiernat ). It 18
also necessary to note that the increase in Mach number
appreciably reduces the specified distinction that is typi-
curred. Fig. 3(b) demonstrates that velocity profiles
can be described in scope of universal logarithmic law
“wall-wake”"**] with lengthy logarithmic part which
well correlates with theoretical calculation. These data
confirm the conclusion about turbulent character of flow
in the boundary layer and they also show that the bound-
ary layer remained non-separated in front of the inlet.
Integral thickness of the boundary layer and its rel-
ative thickness in front of the model channel (8/ H)
have been determined. Characteristics of the boundary
layer on the wall of wind-tunnel before the inlet model
are presented in Table 3. An estimation of influence of
weak nose shock wave and bluntness of the leading ed-
ges on state of boundary layer was obtained on the mod-
el base in front of entrance in the channel, shown in Ta-
ble 4.
Table 3 Characteristics of the boundary layer
on the wall of the wind-tunnel
表 3 风涂洞壁边界层特性
lable 4 araniererSs oI the boundary layer
at the inlet entrance
表 4 进气道入口处边界层参数
6* /mm 11.78 17.7 12. 36 18.7
B* * /mm 2. 05 2, 12 1. 48 2.1
G* 16 5.75 8.35 8,35 8.91
6* / 下 0. 098 0. 148 0. 103 0. 156
&/H 0. 337 0. 383 0. 356 0. 359
Cr X108 0.746 0.614 1.10 1.42
Comparison of data of Table 3 and 4 has revealed
that an influence of the blunt leading edge and the nose
shock wave on change of the integral characteristics of
the boundary layer on the model base was not large and
their growth does not exceed 20%. Such changes de-
pend on formation of local separation,which is caused
by the blunt leading edge,as it has been shown in the
paper[i, First of all, it leads to reduction of fullness of
the velocity profile of the boundary layer (Fig. 3),
where velocity profiles are presented in the form of pow-
er law. This results in increase of displacement thick-
ness and momentum thickness. These data show that rel-
ative thickness of the boundary layer can reach 40% of
height of the inlet channel entrance and relative displace-
ment thickness can amount to 8% ~15 %. It is obvious
that influence of such boundary layer can be essential.
2.2 Characteristics of the inlet
As a result of the tests performed, distribution of
pressure in channel has been obtained at the different in-
let position in the wind-tunnel and for two positions of
the cowl.
Character of the pressure distribution in the inlet
channel depends on the cowl position. Example of pres-
sure distribution is presented in Fig. 4 at M=3. The
pressure distribution along model (central line) at rare
cowl position (L, = 369mm) has a saw-tooth kind,
which is typical for supersonic flow in channel. Such
distribution was realized only if the model has been in-
stalled in a core of the flow and only at the rare cowl po-
sition. At the front cowl position ( 止 . 一 319mm) pres-
sure distribution was typical of subsonic flows with
smooth pressure growth. Increase of pressure at the in-
let entrance ( 又 一 200mm) is associated with the inlet
un-start and with intensive shock waves in the channel.
This pressure is considerably higher than that at rare
cowl position when inlet was started. Inlet un-start oc-
curs in consequence of the fact that supersonic spilling of
the tlow in tront of swept leading edges ot the cowl 1s
not provided at the front cowl position. Pressure reduc-
tion behind the inlet throat (X>400mm) occurs due to
change of channel configuration which must simulate a
supersonic combustor.
entrance in the model channel also confirms realization
of start of the inlet at rear position of the cowl since the
flow in all area in front of entrance remains supersonic
with oblique shock waves (Fig. 5(a)). As a result of
moving of the cowl upstream, in front of position ( 止 一
319mm), character of the flow around model changed
due to non-start of inlet, Spatial shock wave which is
close to the normal shock wave appears before the inlet
(Fig. 5(b)). This picture also demonstrates that the in-
tensive shock wave was detached and its influence ex-
tended on region of flow before the inlet. Furthermore,
presence of intensive shock waves indicates appearance
separation zones before the inlet entrance in channel.
This preliminary finding was confirmed by oil visualiza-
tion of surface stream line.
图 5 模型入口流场纹影显示(M一3)
(a) 工 一 3698mmt,(b) L.=319mm
nel, supersonic inflowing in the inlet was not realized at
any positions of cowl (Fig. 6). Distributions of static
pressure along the model for these cases had practically
identical kind and corresponded to subsonic flow. Influ-
ence of the thick boundary layer manifests itself, first of
all, in appreciable decrease of static pressure in the
channel of model. Influence of the cowl position was
weak and appeared in small increase of pressure in the
throat of the inlet at rare position of the cowl.
fore the inlet entrance was different at installation of the
model in the flow core or on the wind-tunnel wall, In
last case, flow in front of the inlet was subsonic without
supersonic zones. The spilling area increased significant-
ly in comparison with installation of the model in flow
core and weakly depended on the cowl position. Soot-oil
visualization of a stream line on lower wall of model has
demonstrated formation of the global boundary layer
separation, which specified conditions of the flow at the
inlet entrance and conditions of the spilling.
with swept-back and with swept-forward leading edges
of the sidewalls shows that at 仁 一 3 the inlet was star-
ted both at installation of the model in a core of flow and
position, Level of static pressure in the model with
swept-back leading edges was approximately by 20%
higher, than at the model with sidewalls with swept-
forward leading edges (Fig. 8). This advantage of the
model with swept-forward leading edges is reached in
consequence of more intensive lateral spilling of the
thick boundary layer on the basis of the inlet model.
图 8 模型安装于核心流时沿程静压分布(M一3,L:一369mm)
If the model was installed on the wind-tunnel wall,
the inlet was started only in case of the sidewalls with
swept-forward leading edges. Level of pressure in such
model with swept-back leading edges of the sidewalls
was significantly higher than in the inlet with swept-for-
ward leading edges (Fig. 9). If the model with front po-
sition of the cowl were tested on the wind-tunnel wall,
the model of the inlet was not started at application of
any type of the sidewalls because the boundary layer
separation was not possible to prevent.
Increase of free stream Mach number improves
start conditions of the inlet, At M =4, the model of the
inlet tested in core of flow was started at both cowl DO-
sitions. Values of static pressure were very close at the
front and rear cowl positions. Characters of static pres-
sure distributions on the base of model correspond to
supersonic flow in the channel (Fig, 10). Supersonic
character of inflowing is confirmed by schlieren visual-
ization of the flow at the inlet entrance (Fig. 11). Pres-
ence of oblique shock waves confirms supersonic spilling
before the entrance, It can be seen that character of flow
of the cowl is identical at both its positions, i, e,with-
out a head (normal) shock wave at the inlet entrance,
At the same time, structure of flow in these two cases is
a little bit different, Declination of shock wave was dif-
ferent since it allows guaranteeing necessary supersonic
spilling,
图 11 模垒入口流场纹影暨示(M一4
(a) L.=369mm, (b) 此 二 319mua
At installation of the model with the front cowl po-
sition (L, =319mm) on the wall of the wind-tunnel, the
presence of thick boundary layer leads to pressure distri-
bution, which is close to distribution for non-started in-
let (Fig. 12). However, break-up of inflowing in the
channel has not occurred (Fig. 13a). As a result, for-
mation of close-to-normal shock wave before entrance in
the channel occurs and more intensive spilling takes
place before leading edges of the cowl. Evidently, tran-
国13(6b}模壁入口上方纹影昱示(MM一4,L.一369mm)
ing edges is compared only at rear cowl position on the
model (L.=369mm). Results of comparison of static
pressure distribution in model with swept-back and
swept-forward leading edges of sidewalls at M=4 are
presented in Fig. 14 and 15. Influence of swept was dif-
ferent at the test of model in flow core and on wall of
wind-tunnel. It is possible to note that in the channel of
model with swept-back leading edges, the more high
pressure on the base is reached but qualitative character
of distribution of pressure is kept, as well as at M=3,
It was revealed that the inlet with swept-back leading
edges allows obtaining more high level of pressure in
channel (Fig. 14). Such result is due to more intensive
spilling through lower part of sidewalls (near model
base) before channel. However, pressure distribution
corresponds to supersonic flow in both cases.
图 14 模型安装于核心流时沿程静压分布(M二4,L.一369mrm)
At the installation of model on wall of the wind-
tunnel, the influence of boundary layer on the pressure
distributions in channel at enlarged Mach number differs
in fact that they weakly depends on the cowl position,
Pressure in the channel is decreasing but flow remains
supersonic and pressure distribution reflects presence of
shock waves and expansion fan in channel. This is effect
of essential increase (more than two times) of relative
thickness of the boundary layer at the entrance in the
model channel.
Increase of Mach number leads to the raise of static
pressure in channel of the inlet. Results of measurement
of static pressure distribution at Mach number 6 on sur-
faces of the inlet model at installation of model in core of
flow and on wall of wind-tunnel are presented in Fig.
16. Comparison of these data shows that pressure level
and pressure distribution weakly depend on the model
position at the tests in wind-tunnel. It is necessary to
note rather weak influence of thick boundary layer on
that indicates non-separation of flow. These data also
show that pressure distribution on the base of model is
characterized by essential non-uniformity, which is typi-
cal for supersonic flow in the channel. The large change
of compression ratio is realized in channel. This is con-
sequence of alternation of shock waves and expansion
fan in channel, Mach numbers in inlet throat under
these conditions amount to 2. 1~2. 5, and its value was
approximately the same in the tests with and without
boundary layer at the inlet entrance.
图 15 模型安装于洞壁时诟程静压分布(M二4,L。二369mm)
ured with the help of the coordinate device with 4 Pitot
tubes, This pressure was used for definition of total
pressure recovery coefficient and structure of flow (non-
uniformity) in the throat. As an example, Fig. 17 and
18 demonstrate distribution of relative pressure across
height of the throat at Mach numbers 4 and 6. First of
all, it is necessary to attend to high non-uniformity of
total pressure and its dependence on position of the
model in the flow core or on the wall of the wind-tun-
nel. Such non-uniformity is characteristic for supersonic
flow in the channel. Influence of the boundary layer
shows in pressure decrease in the throat at installation of
the model on the wall 01 wind-tunnel,
Comparison of the data at Mach numbers 4 and 6
demonstrates that the increase of Mach number results
in intensification of non-uniformity of pressure across
height of the channel and amplification of influence of
the boundary layer. Non-uniformity of flow in the inlet
throat is essentially lower at the subsonic flow velocity,
and influence of the boundary layer in front of the en-
trance in the inlet channel is simultaneously decreasing.
exit section of the channel, mass flow rate and total
pressure recovery coefficients for two positions of cowl
have been determined (Fig. 19). First of all, it is neces-
sary to note strong influence of the boundary layer on
the achievable level of mass flow rate and total pressure
recovery for two positions of the cowl. For example,
mass flow rate at installation of the model on the wall of
wind-tunnel can decrease by a factor of 1. 5~2. Ap-
proximately the same reduction is observed in value of
total pressure recovery coefficient, The above mentioned
features were kept at change of the cowl position. Mo-
reover, at position of the cowl L. 二 319mm reduction
can be even more significant (Fig. 19, M=4). It is ex-
plained by appearance of the boundary layer separation
OIl Tne pase OI Une model. 止 SUPEISDIHC LLU WLL 时 111 tc
channel is not realized, influence of change of the cowl
position and of the boundary layer was strongly weak-
ened.
图 19 模型安装于核心流和洞壁时质量流量
系数和总压恢复系数
3 Conclusions
Performed experimental researches of model of the
spatial adjustable inlet with swept-forward and swept-
back leading edges in range of Mach numbers from 1. 75
up to 6 in blow down wind-tunnel have allowed drawing
the following conclusions.
(1) As a result of strong influence of thick bounda-
ry layer, mass flow rate coefficient significantly decrea-
ses (under some conditions by a factor of 2).
(2) Supersonic inflowing in the channel of inlet
model at presence of a thick boundary layer can be real-
ized only at Mach number more than 3.
(3) The type of swept of leading edges of sidewalls
of the model weakly influences on the pressure distribu-
tion in the channel of the inlet model.
