无人机折叠翼展开动力学分析
折叠翼的展开性能关系着箱式发射无人机在发射后能否正常的飞行。以箱式发射无人机折叠翼为研究对象,根据其结构及工作原理,建立展开机构运动的微分方程;利用LMS Virtual.Lab建立展开动力学模型,分析机翼在不同扭簧刚度下的展开过程,得到机翼展开角度、角速度、角加速度和冲击载荷曲线;利用橡胶进行减振并探讨阻尼系数对减振效果的影响。结果表明：机翼能够在设计要求的时间内展开到位并锁定,加入橡胶后的冲击载荷降低了46.7%,随着橡胶阻尼系数的增加,振动逐渐减弱。

折叠翼 展开 LMS 动力学仿真 减振  

doi: 10.1016/S1672-6529(13)60243-7
1 Introduction
The increasing takeoff and landing frequency of
airplanes has generated significant noise pollution that
disturbs people’s lives, so noise reduction has become a
major issue in the design of aircrafts. A significant re-
duction in jet noise was achieved by the introduction of
high-bypass ratio engines around 1970. As a result, air-
frame noise becomes relevant in the approach phase,
where engines are throttled down. Past studies identified
high-lift devices as dominant airframe noise sources[31
Furthermore, the high-lift device noise source is domi-
nated by a slat cove. Many researchers achieved slat
noise reduction by using a cover, filler or liner to avoid a
slat cove"), but the technologies were sensitive to
high-lift performance and needed the support of new
materials due to making the slat stowed in cruise. Clearly,
it is very difficult that how to transfer these technologies
to the design of conventional slats. It is well known that
birds increase lift performance by alulae, and owls can
even achieve silent l〔]igh′[[乏弓_】]]】 as shown in Fig. 1. Es-
pecially, the owl flies at a high angle of attack like a
landing aircraft, so the study of the owl is important in
spite of the bird’s small size, mass and low flight speed
compared with the airplane. Thus, from the point of view
of the bionics, the paper attempts to build a new slat on
the basis of owl wings in order to obtain the desired
high-lift effect ensuring that a slat cove is avoided.
Fig. 1 Picture (a) and sketch (b) of wings with the deployed
alulae.
Model tests were used to measure the lift per-
formance of the natural wings with deflected alulae!'”.
Nachtigall and Kempf!’! measured the lift and drag
polars on the house sparrow wing. Meseguer ef aL[11did
similar measurements on the pigeon wings. However,
these three-ditmensional test models used were almost
the same as the natural wings with deflected alulae, and
thereby did not look like the real wings of aircrafts
geometrically. This means that the high-lift effect of the
alulae reported in the literature can not be directly ap-
plied to the design of slats.
geometry of the owl wing differs from those of other
birds or technical airfoils. Liu et al. researched bionic
airfoils extracted from non-contact surface measure-
ments using a three-dimensional laser scanner including
the camber line and thickness distribution of the airfoils,
camber and the maximum thickness between adjacent
profiles at the several spanwise positions of one scan
was very high due to feathers sticking out ofthe wing or
damaged feathers. Thus, the three-dimensional scanning
model did not resemble the natural wing, and thereby the
resulting airfoil did not embody the characteristic of the
owl airfoil. Klan et al. made a further work with a least
square fit for geometrical quantities in spanwise direc-
tion yielding asmooth wing surface,and the geometry of
mum camber and the averaged maximum thickness were
used to build a bionic airfoil. However, the validity of
the airfoil determined by the averaged quantities was
limited, and hence the Root Mean Square (RMS) of the
maximum camber and the maximum thickness should be
introduced for mathematical formulation of the camber
line and thickness distribution.
The current paper makes efforts towards gaining a
preliminary understanding of high-lift effect associated
with a bionic slat without a cove. First, a bionic airfoil is
extracted from a smoothed three-dimensional scanning
model ofa long-eared owl wing. Then, a multi-element
airfoil with a bionic slat is built by splitting the bionic
airfoil. Third, the lift of the three-dimensional models
with the stowed slat and the deployed slat are measured
in a low-speed wind tunnel to characterize the high-lift
effect of the slat, and the flow fields around the two
models are visualized. Finally, two-dimensional simu-
lation is used to complement the experiment.
2 Material and method
2.1 Construction of digital natural wing
First of all, a long-eared owl wing was used for
to photographs of owls in approach phase, the natural
wing was fixed by a plastic frame, which will be re-
moved from the three-dimensional scanning model of
the wing.
Fig. 2 Picture of a living long-eared owl wing.
The scan was performed by a three-dimensional
laser scanner (Fig. 3). The resulting model consisted of
polygon meshes. Since the outboard part is very thin, it
is not suitable for the technical wing, the part from the
tip to alulae was deleted. Furthermore, the surfaces,
which were resulted in by damaged natural feathers at
the trailing edge or feathers sticking out of the wing,
were smoothed by fitting so that the resulting distribu-
tions ofthe camber and the thickness resembled those of
the technical airfoil much better.
2.2 Extraction of bionic airfoil
After scanning, the model was divided into 21 cross
sections along the spanwise direction with equal interval.
The cross sections were decomposed into a camber line
ULIYVSE 1EIQLHB a SIHOUULUL QLSUIDULULUILL AS JCC 111 UIC
picture, “the camber of the wing considered here was
increased compared with the camber of flying owls. For
this reason, the results of Biesel ef al. were used to cor-
RMS of the maximum camber was used for the poly-
nomials describing the following camber line distribu-
tion. Similarly, the RMS of the thickness was addressed
by the same process.
The mathematical formulation for the camber line
camber line is used
where #=x/c is the normalized chordwise coordinate,
2zetmagy 18 the maximum camber coordinate, and C is
the local wing chord. The thickness distribution is given
by
where z,max) 1s the maximum thickness coordinate, S,
1 2 3 4
Sn 1.503e 71 -2.841e 》 1.188 一
An -1.912 4.005 3.451 1.091
The upper and lower surfaces of an airfoil are ex-
pressed as addition and subtraction of the camber line
and thickness distribution, zupper=zte+z( and
zlower-z(c-zt, respectively. The resulting bionic airfoil is
depicted like a normal airfoil in Fig. 5. The characteris-
tics of the airfoil and three-dimensional model are given
in Table 2.
(a)
′/ J E E
Me限咤咤c吴cP
Table 2 Characteristics of the bionic airfoil and related
three-dimensional model
Description
Chord 0.15 m
Span 0.15m
Wing area 0.0225 m*
Max. thickness 13.89%
Location of Zymax) 13.60%
Max. camber 3.80%
Location of z (max) 50.40%
2.3 Extraction of bionic multi-element airfoil
Because alulae consist of a few feathers, a profile of
a bionic slat can not be determined by the above means.
curve by the leading and trailing edges of the profile.
Then, the lower curve was smoothed by a least square fit
as an inner profile of a bionic slat. Moreover, the inves-
tigation assumed that the leading edge of the bionic
multi-element airfoil, the starting point of the inner pro-
file of the bionic slat, and the starting point of the lead-
ing-edge profile of the main wing were at the same lo-
cation. The bionic airfoil was divided into the bionic slat
and main wing by the inner profile (Fig. 6a). Thus, the
end point of the inner profile of the bionic slat, the outer
profile of the bionic slat, the end point of the lead-
ing-edge profile of a main wing, and the leading-edge
profile of the main wing were obtained, and these end
points also were located on the same position with the
trailing edge of the bionic slat. Therefore, the bionic slat
without a cove and the bionic multi-element airfoil were
determined.
(a)
three-dimensional multi-element model are 0.15 m
slat and the deployed slat were manufactured by rapid
manufacturing and prototyping system from Stratasy
Inc.
Table 3 Geometrical settings of bionic slat
Angle Gap Overhang
1 0.9% 20%
2.4 Measurement
mm, as shown in Fig. 7. Lift force was measured by a
three component load cell. Because the sting jointed to
the three component load cell was covered by the model
configuration, there was hardly any aerodynamic force
of the sting in the measurement. It was ensured that the
relative error of the three component cell was less 1%.
The wind tunnel was also used as a smoke wind tunnel
by installing laser sheet generator. The smoke lines were
generated by engine oil dropping on an electrically
heated 0.1 mm nichrome wire moving downstream with
smoke lines can be clearly displayed. The measurement
林东用规沥东东沥技东WAALRLLIVERL规野仁野许伟东一7沥东My
flow. The computational domain of the airfoils extends
to 20c in the upstream direction, 24c in the downstream
direction and 30c in the crosswise direction (Fig. 8). The
fect in the incompressible flow regime. The no-slip wall
boundary condition was applied to the airfoils. Quadri-
lateral grids with C-type were employed for the simula-
tion because they generate less numerical diffusion than
triangular grids. The grid size is small enough to capture
the interesting flow structures. Further node savings
were achieved by specifical clustering nodes near the
wall. For instance, the node distribution at the wall
yields non-dimensional wall distances y「 <0.4 every-
where.
In this paper only the models and airfoils with
constant geometry parameters were considered, since it
is the purpose of this investigation to reveal the high-lift
effect of the bionic slat. The variable parameters of the
bionic slat will be analyzed in the future.
where L is the lift, p is the density of the air, U is the
freestream velocity, S is the wing area. Fig. 9 shows the
distribution of the lift coefficient CL over angle of attack
a. The graphs clearly depict that the higher the Re, the
larger is the maximum lift coefficient. In addition, the
lift coefficient for the stowed slat is larger than that for
the deployed slat at as4 . In nature, real alulae can dy-
model used here are fixed in the experiment. Thus, the
slat works more like a spoiler at low angles of attack.
However, the model with the deployed slat generates the
with alulae deflected.
The gradient of the lift coefficient for the stowed
slat starts to drop obviously around a = 4°. It implies that
the leading-edge boundary layer is separated due to the
adverse pressure gradient downstream of the suction
peak. “It is characteristic for this kind of separation that
its chordwise extent on formation is very small at low
angles of attack, approximately 2%—3% chord length,
and that it grows rapidly at increasing angles such that at
cient for the deployed slat also decreases around a = 14°,
It indicates that the leading-edge separation still occurs.
3.2 Flow visualization
To further verify the findings of the lift coefficient,
the smoke wire technique was applied. The visualized
flow field evidenced that the boundary layer around the
leading edge of both models was separated, as depicted
in Fig. 10. Then, the separated shear layer rolls up
forming a vortex due to Kelvin-Helmholtz (K-H) insta-
bility. It re-energizes the low-velocity flow on the near
wall, and thereby reattachment occurs. However, the
related two-dimensional steady simulation around the
airfoils was not able to capture separated flow (Fig. 11),
since the separation was a highly unsteady and spatially
oscillating process. Thus, the related two-dimensional
unsteady simulation around the airfoils can clearly show
the leading-edge separation (Fig. 12). This instantaneous
velocity vectors colored by static pressure suggests an
end of separation in both cases where the bubble is
closed. Interestingly, the similar evolution was found on
the lower surface indicating a separated flow. This
separation was caused by the high thickness close to the
leading edge resulting in a high curvature of the lower
surfaces of the airfoils.
For the airfoil with the stowed slat, a large-scale
vortex detached from the downstream end of the bubble
and drifted downstream. Later, moving further down-
E春B国命命命命吴吴命命咤
on the upper surface of the slat (Fig. 14). This seems
responsible for the decrease in the gradient of lift coef-
ficient with the deployed slat in Fig. 9.
4 Conclusion
The high-lift effect of a bionic slat was investigated
before extending the current study to include noise
mechanism. The two-dimensional airfoils with the
stowed bionic slat and the deployed bionic slat were
extracted from the three-dimensional scanning model
of a long-eared owl wing. Then, the related
, three-dimensional models were measured to character-
ize the lift performance in wind tunnel. The lift coeffi-
cient evidences high-lift effect of the bionic slat at high
angles of attack. Furthermore, the deployed slat can
contribute to increasing the maximum lift coefficient
and stall angle, and postponing the decrease in the gra-
dient of the lift coefficient. The smoke lines around both
The investigation of the bionic slat without a cove
is important for the design of slats. Moreover, it is nec-
essary how to transfer the high-lift effect to the designs
and even come up with the silent flight. Therefore, we
will consider the model with the variable geometrical
settings and the related noise reduction in future.
Acknowledgment
This research is supported by the National Natural
Science Fund of China (No. 31071928).
