机场终端区障碍物对DME导航台信号覆盖影响分析
针对机场终端区障碍物对DME导航台辐射分布的影响,本文利用可视性分析理论与电磁波传播理论,考虑机场终端区实际地形影响,针对单个DME地面导航台进行信号覆盖范围的研究,提出研究单个DME导航台信号覆盖范围的一种方法。分析机场终端区障碍物对DME导航台电磁波的遮蔽效应,并利用可视化的方法结合数字地形予以呈现,这一研究可以为机场建设导航台的布置,障碍物评估等方面提供理论依据,对于民航机场的安全运营有重要意义。

DME导航台 数字地形 视域分析 绕射算法 辐射分布  

Introduction
. Glide Reentry Vehicle (GRV) is a kind of unique
vehicle which can glide in reentry phase,and it has dis-
tinguishing characteristics of high dynamic and fast re-
sponse. It flies in wide complex aerospace environment,
and the flight is affected by many constraint factors such
as close coupling and strong jamming, etc.
Therefore, a lot of difficulties are caused to GRV ’ S
attitude control system design: 1. Precise mathematical
model is difficult to establish. 2. Stable control is hard to
realize and the stability margin is rather low. 3. It usual-
ly uses the fast maneuver bank—to—turn control,and
needs to progress channel coordinated control in terms
of high dynamic. Due to the above points,the attitude
control system design of GRV is a complex control
problem. Mujti~variable,nonlinearity,strong coupling
and uncertainties must be taken into account. The clas—
sical approach for coupled problems,which is the
three—channel independent design method based on
small perturbation linearization theory and hypothesis of
parameter freezing! 11 is hard to solve the high dynamic
maneuver control problem and satisfy the attitude con-
trol accuracy. It is desired to develop an integrated de—
sign method for the multivariable,nonlinear,coupled
and uncertain control system.
In order to solve the multi~channel coupling,
strong jamming, uncertainties and nonlinear control dif-
ficulties of GRV ,a robust adaptive decoupling control
method which has active disturbance rejection ability, is
presented in this paper by using differential geometry
and Active Disturbance Rejection Control (ADRC)
theory based on the research of references [> In the
proposed method in this paper,an Extended State Ob-
server (EOS) computes and compensates the uncer-
tainties and disturbances to improve the feedback lin—
earization method. A major breakthrough of the im-
proved feedback linearization method is to effectively
overcome many constraints of the traditional feedback
linearization method, which is unusable when there’re
modeling errors and unknown varieties of dynamic sys-
tem. Attributed to the improved method, multivariable
nonlinear coupled and uncertain system changes into an
active disturbance rejection system where the relation-
ship between output and input has been linearly decou-
pled. It helps to provide an effective engineering~ori-
ented approach to solve the control problem of multi-
variable nonlinear coupled and uncertain system by us—
ing mature linear design method. Through designing ac-
tive disturbance rejection attitude stabilization loop, the
robust stability and good control qualities of decoupled
system are guaranteed under strong jamming and uncer-
tain conditions. Thus a robust adaptive decoupling atti—
tude control is achieved for the complex GRV.
1 Attitude dynamics model and state
While GRV usually has a lifting body configura-
tion, the attitude motion of the GRV can be described by
the following equations of motion:
For the definition of A~Ae,a~d refer to the litera—
ture [ m〕. Moreover, the states variable is defined as:
Then the state space description of attitude model
is obtained:
Where
namic model
Here it is assumed that there is no uncertainty and
disturbance,and the attitude dynamic model (3) is
nominal model. Based on the differential geometry theo-
ry,the nominal model is accurately linearized which im-
plies feedback linearization. Therefore,the relationship
between input and output of the nonlinear model (3) is
Then, the state feedback is given by
Where
Taking the state transformation as
?79 -
Using feedb ack linearization to achieve precise
P =x, (Ax, sinx, 十 元 COS 儿 +
The state and output equations transformed from
From the above equations, it is clear that it’s a se-
ries integral linear system,where the original model
changes to a generalized system with linear relationship
between input and output by using feedback lineariza—
tion,and it has been the decoupling of the input and the
output. The three—channel independent dynamics can
be written as
、 80 ,
The feedback linearization schematic block dia~-
gram of System (3) is represented by the following
drawing:
Figure 1 Feedback linearization schematic block diagram 。
3 Improved precise linearization based
on ESO
The linearization above is based on nominal
model, not considering the uncertainty of the vehicle’s
mathematical model. Therefore,because of the unknown
disturbances,nonmodeled dynamics and uncertainties ,
the deviation is inevitably engendered between matrixes
P or 0 given by the nominal model and the feedback
matrix required by the actual system,which results in
the fact that the actual system is on longer a single
channel decoupled system like equation (13). In stead,
it becomes an uncertain coupling system as follows:
Among them, f; (2;,z;) and By are uncertainties,
and w refers to disturhances. Here, the real-time
acceleration of the actual system affected by
disturbances and uncertainties is extended into new
states, which is named the extended system. Through
designing the ESO, the actual system’s accelerations a
made up of modeled dynamics,uncertain dynamics and
unknown disturbance are estimated in real time.
Equation (13) is always approximately established by
compensating z with a in real ti me,which keeps the
nice adaptability of the decoupling system with the
changing flight state and the good decoupling relation
between the input and the output through the whole
flight envelope:
The following formula can be gained by choosing
So, the control function of the system (15) can be
rewritten as follows.
to the desired decoupling system (13),just as the
Thus,the input and output decoupled relation of
actual system affected by disturbances and uncertainties
, is always established.
The block diagram of precise linearization and
decoupled system with ESO are as follows:
Figure 2 The schematic diagram of improved linearization system
Base on the improved linearization model above,
the attitude controller can be designed easily through
single channel design method which is used to design ,
linear control system “ traditionally ,and attitude
stabilization and servo control are achieved easily.
4 The design of attitude stabilization
loop based on ADRC
Even though the input and output of attitude model
which has been linearized through feedback
linearization are linear,the model can be regarded as a
decoupled linear system which let us be able to design
the control loop by every single channel individually,
but its dynamic characteristics can not be insured. By
formula (13),we can easily find out that the system
itself is series integral and critical stable. Its robust
stability and dynamic characteristics can not satisfy the
need of attitude control of GRV. In order to improve
decoupling attitude control system’s dynamic control
qualities and stability margin,we need to use control
method such as pole configuration, state feedback and
robust control to improve robust stability and control
qualities of this decoupled generalized attitude system.
Because we have already designed ESO in
decoupling system, in this part, we use ADRC which has
strong adaptability and robustness to uncertainty and
disturbance to design the decoupling system’ s stability.
steps: design of command transient process,design of
ESO,design of state discrepancy feedback control law
and design of disturbances compensation. Because the
decoupling system shown in Fig. 2 had already regarded
uncertainties and disturbances as residual couple and
compensated them with summational disturbances, there
is no need to add disturbance compensation loop into
attitude stabilization loop,and at the same time,we can
get attitude angle and angular velocity from the values
measured by the inertia platform, so there is no need to
use observed value either. All of the above have simpli
fied the design process of ADRC attitude stabilization
loop.
Design of command transient process
The command transient process is achieved by
differential tracker. Considering that most of the existing
control systems are digital control systems, here we use
steepest discrete tracking differentiator to arrange the
command transient process.
Note the command of channel i (i=p N yr) 8S Yi rss
its differential coefficient as y,_., the command transient
function would be like the following:
Where wk) is the transition of command Yer k ),
vik) is its differential coefficient, e; ,(k }=,(k )~ y 兄 )
is transition error,r, is the limit of command accelera—
tion, is step size, Jh( +) is as below:
Arranging the command transient process can
compromise the difference between the system’s
rapidity and overshoot,solve the control saturation
which happens when the dynamic inverse decoupling
control system encounters abrupt command change and
improve the system 「s dynamic response characteristics.
^ ? Design of state error feedback control law
Define channel i s state error as:
(三言="…_守′'(20)
6i二设一2=V23
Compared with the linear error feedback,the
efficiency of nonlinear error feedback is higher. In this
article we use segmented power function polynomial ei
and e「 to compose error feedback law, at the same time,
to replace 2a in control law shown in formula (18),
namely:
The definition of fal (- ) is the same as it is in .
formula (16),meanwhile,0 一 a 一 1 一 az
Reference [9] has demonstrated the theory that
error feedback law shown in formula (21) is invariable
to series—integral system’s uncertainties and distur-
bances, and there is no need for us to discus it in this
article.
The error feedback law shown in formula (21)
uses the method of small error with small feedback value
and large error with large feedback value to complete the
dynamic “contiguration ,accomplish attitude stability
augmentation and improve dynamic characteristics. The
guarantees the system's good servo tracking by
balancing rapidity and overshoot. The block diagram of
attitude decoupling system with stabilization loop is as
below:
Figure 3 The integrate diagram of decoupling control system
5 Simulation results
First-order actuator model with gust disturbance
has been used in the mathematical simulation for GRV.
Flight Mach number:M=5,flight altitude H=40 km,
simulation step time was 1tms,parameters of the ESO
+ 8D
were BuzBz= 10 ，′〔`翼lz=浮2z=2l ?Bi=Bx1=15.6 ,Bal=5 Bn=12,
ys=7 ,6=0.01. The parameters of feedback control law
for pitch,yaw and roll channel were the same,i.e. B
=10,B2=18.6,ai=0.25,au=1.34. The Decoupling and
dynamic performance was shown in Fig. 4,which has
been studied through tracking the square signal.
Figure 4 Attitude response curves of three channels
The simulation in Fig. 4 has been repeated under
circumstances shown in table 1 to validate the
adaptability for uncertainties and disturbances. The
maximum error and cross coupling level of roll channel
was given in table 2 comparing with that of the standard
circumstance.
Table 1 Combination of uncertainty and disturbance
〈r【l〕【】【】【亳簪】t〈i】】_…【1i^l〈_】f,1t【【】i(丨(】】′l薹【】)PamWinds
State 1 +30 % +10 % (《+15,+5 ,+5 ) +15 % 20 m/s
State2 -30% -10% (-15,-5,-5) -15% T=0.1s
Table 2 The maximum error and cross coupling level relative to
standard circumstance
A? Ang Any Cross coupling
State 1 0.311° 0.258° 0.510° 0.786°
State 2 0.526° 0.632° 0.815° 1.231°
The simulation results in Fig. 4 showed that our:
method obtained high rapidity , stability ,and decoupling.
The maximum response error with bias combination
showed in Table 1 was 0.815° relative to that in Fig. 4.
The response curve with bias combination was quite
close to the result without that,and the cross coupling
level was very low (<1.231° ),which showed the
control qualities and decoupling in this paper performed
good adaptability and robustness to the uncertainties
and disturbances of the system,which could fulfill the
requirement of engineering design.
6 Conclusions
Based on differential geometry and ADRC, this
paper advanced a strong robust and adaptive attitude
decoupling control method with active disturbance
rejecting capability?for the glide reentry vehicle,and
"studied the robustness,decoupling and control qualities
under uncertainties and disturbances through
simulation. The following is the study conclusions:
@ The improved precise linearization method
based on ESO obtained strong robustness and
adaptability against the uncertainties and disturbances
of system,with which the system could maintain good
Input-Output decoupling relation under the complex
control “circumstance,and further,it improved the
engineering application of feedback linearization.
@ The attitude stabilization control method based
on ADRC improved the robustness of decoupling control
system against uncertainties and disturbances,and
advanced the control performance through reasonably
arranging the command transient process and optimally
designing error non-linear feedback law.
@ This paper added new method for the linear
design of complex coupling non-linear system,and
lowered the strict boundary between linear and
non-linear system in engineering design process.
@ The method of this paper could be widely
(上棉第77页)
具体情况进一步修改完善。
