检定医用数字摄影（DR）系统X射线辐射源影像的均匀性
根据JJG 1078-2012《医用数字摄影（CR、DR）系统X射线辐射源》中关于影像均匀性的检定方法,从多方面分析人为因素影响影像均匀性技术指标的评价,为实施影像均匀性检测提供参考。

数字X射线摄影系统 影像均匀性 合格评定 检定方法  

1 Introduction
As a matter of fact,the inlet and exit tem-
perature levels and pressure are progressively get-
ting higher in modern gas-turbine combustors
while the percentage of compressed air available
for cooling purpose becomes more limited. Un-
doubtedly, the decrease of the quantity of cooling
air available and the increase of the gas tempera-
ture in the combustion chamber are contradictory
elements of the problem, which presents a great
challenge for engineers to design an efficient cost-
effective cooling system to meet combustor dura-
bility requirement.
Jet impingement is one of the most efficient
solutions for the effective cooling of the combus-
tor in gas turbine enginest''??. The heat and mass
transfer produced by the turbulent impinging jets
have been characterized in a number of investiga-
tions reviewed by Viskantars Weigand and
Spring, Basic investigations on single impin-
ging jet with and without cross-flow were conduc-
ted for example by Goldstein and Behbahani?!,
Lee et a.l〔〈s〕 [ and Colucci and Viskantat?. These
investigations have shown that the heat transfer
produced by an impinging jet depends mainly on a
number of parameters,including the Reynolds
number of the jet, the nozzle-to-plate spacing,
the presence of a confining wall, and the Prandtl
number, etc. Convective heat transfer enhance-
ment, increase in the heat transfer rate uniformi-
ty, improvement in the coverage of the impinge-
ment surface, and decrease in the coolant mass
flow rate are some of the concerns of jet impinge-
Iment[8-441 ,
With regards to the effects of a confining
wall on the jet impingement, Garimella and
Riceri51 as well as Fitzerald and Garimella[16] per-
formed experiments to examine the flow field of a
confined jet impingement. A toroidal recircula-
tion-flow pattern in the downstream was clearly
shown. Angibletti et al[l17l1 investigated the flow
field and heat transfer for a jet impinging on a flat
plate. Zhang et al’ and Wang et al**! studied the
effect of crossflow on jet impingement heat trans-
fer for inline and staggered arrays. Parida et all?’
made an experimental and numerical investigation
on the confined oblique impingement configura-
tions for high heat flux applications. It was ob-
served that for the inclined impingement case, the
flow had to turn and adjust to the cylindrical jet
before starting to develop inside the jet holes.
This caused the formation of two nonsymmetrical
secondary flow regions. Especially due to this
large secondary flow region, the jets got acceler-
ated and flowed out at relatively higher velocity
causing the heat transfer rates to increase locally.
Moreover, the swirl generated after impingement
sustained itself for a longer distance, thereby in-
creasing the overall heat transfer rates. Some re-
searchers addressed the effects of nozzle geometry
on heat transfer and fluid flow.
Although a considerable amount of investiga-
tions have been conducted on the jet impingement
heat transfer so that the design of impingement
cooling systems could be optimized to produce the
most effective cooling with a minimum amount of
coolant, little work has been made on the heat
transfer characteristics of jet impingement inside
a semi-confined channel where the coolant air is
constrained to evacuate in a single preferential di-
rection toward the trailing exit, This situation
could be viewed as a simplified model of impinge-
ment-convection heat transfer encountered in the
combustor liner cooling configurations, The mo-
tivation of present study is to expiore the effects
of the impingement Reynolds number, impinge-
ment distance and the hole pitch on the flow and
heat transfer characteristics inside the semi-con-
fined channel.
2 Experimental Procedures
2.1 Experimental setup
The experimental setup is sketched in
Fig. 1(a). It basically consists of a test section
connected to a coolant air supply passage. The
coolant air from the compressor is firstly drawn
through a standard flow meter and forced to enter
into the plenum chamber. Then the coolant air is
discharged through the orifice plate to impinge at
the target plate. After impingement on the target
plate, the spent air is constrained inside the semi-
channel to exit in only one direction (the positive
z-direction as seen in Fig. 1(b)).
5 mm thickness. The spanwise width 《 y-direc-
tion) is 100 mm and the streamwise length (z-di-
rection) is 200 mm. Single-row and double-row
of circular sharp-edged holes are used to generate
the impinging jets. The diameter (d) of each hole
is equal to 2 mm, as shown in Fig. 1(c). Single-
row of impinging jets is positioned 3d from the
closed side of the test section. The spanwise pitch
(y.) between adjacent holes varies from 3d to 5d.
With regard to the double-row configuration, the
first row of jets is positioned 3d downstream from
the closed side of the test section. Two rows of
jets are arranged inline with streamwise pitch
(x,) of 3d, 4d or 5d, respectively.
The impingement target is a thin constantan
foil of 0.01 mm thickness (70 mm long, 100 mm
wide) which is mounted on the inner surface of a
nylon plate《200 mm long,100 mm wide and
20 mm thick). The foil spans the width of the
plate and is tightened up by the adjustable copper
bars to tension the foil after it is heated. The im-
pingement distance or the nozzle-to-plate spacing
between the orifice plate and the target plate is
adjusted by a spacer thickness, giving some dif-
ferent non-dimensional orifice-to-target space ra-
tios(z,/d, impingement distance to the diameter
of jet hole). The foil is heated by DC current with
two-side edges connecting to the copper bars to
ensure uniform heat flux, The voltage (V) and
the current (I) are recorded to determine the heat
flux. In the experiment, the constant heat-flux
on the heating foil surface is set as 5 000 W/m?,
To make the object thermal image be detected by
the infrared camera, a viewing window with
30 mm wide and 70 mm long is opened in the ny-
lon insulation plate.
2.2 Measurement and parameter definition
The impingement Reynolds number is deter-
mined as
where d is the inlet diameter of jet hole, v the ki-
nematic viscosity of the jet, xi the mean jet veloc-
ity at the inlet, m the total mass flow rate of the
air emerging from the orifice plate,x is the dy-
namic viscosity of the jet, and N is the number of
holes in the orifice plate,
The temperature distribution on the rear face
of the foil (the opposite side of jet impingement)
is measured by an infrared camera (TVS-2000
MK) working in the 3 一 5 um band at speed of 30
frames per second. The field of view is 25° X
18. 8°/0. 4 m, the instantaneous field of view is
1. 3 mrad, and the thermal sensitivity is 0. 07 °C
at 30 °C. The infrared camera calibration is con-
ducted by using a series of thermocouples placed
on the black painted test surface to act as the
benchmark!?'?2J, These thermocouples are used
to estimate the emissivity of the test surface. The
emissivity of the black painted surface when
viewed directly is about 0. 96. Three copper-con-
stantan thermocouples are fixed on the foil to
check the heater temperature and to help deter-
mine steady-state conditions. Once the tempera-
ture field on the impinging target reaches steady ,
the thermal image is recorded by the infrared
camera. The detective distance is set as 100 mm
and accordingly the transmissivity for the infrared
camera is approximately regarded as 1.
In the present case, the infrared camera is
used in conjunction with the“heated thin foil”
steady state heat transfer sensof《Carlomagno and
Cardone'?). Since the impingement target thick-
ness is very thin, the Biot number《B5 二 A5/2。,
where h is the convective heat transfer coefficient
on the target surftace,6 and A, are the thickness
and thermal conductivity of the thin target plate,
respectively) is small with respect to unity, the
temperature on the face of the foil opposite to the
jet impingement may be considered practically the
same as that on the target surface directly im-
pinged by the jets. Considering the energy bal-
ance of a thin plate in steady state conditions ,the
local convective heat transfer coefficient on the
target surface is evaluated as
where T, is the target wall temperature, T; the
impinging jet temperature (metered in the ple-
num chamber), g; the Joule heat flux, and Gaadation
the radiation heat flux, and Quonvectoa the natural
convection heat flux on the rear foil surface.
Due to the thermal inertia of the foil and the
time averaging process of the image, present
measurements have to be considered as time aver-
aged. This means that temperature fluctuations
due to flow turbulence are not measured.
The net rate of radiation heat flux is esti-
mated as
q艾′adatio】′`【一e[:_a【二丨(夜〈TsT:)(3)
where T, is the surrounding ambient tempera-
ture, en. the emissivity of nylon plate, and x the
Stefan-Boltzmann constant.
The heat loss from the back of foil by natural
convection mode is determined according to the
empirical relation for natural convection from ver-
tical flat plate.
嘎c{)】_I\′E…c【i【〕【】一hs(T,—T,)4
where h; is the natural convection heat transfer
coefficient over the back of heated foil , which is
determined according to the empirical relation for
natural convection from vertical flat plate.
Heat transfer measurements are expressed in
dimensionless form in terms of Nusselt number.
The laterally-averaged Nusselt number is defined
as
Nz′乙…囊、′,>】′'=oval(5)
where 》 is the thermal conductivity of air, and
h.... the laterally-averaged convective heat trans-
fer coefficient.
The discharge coefficient, which is inversely
proportional to the pressure drop across the cool-
ant hole in the rib-roughened channel, is defined
as
where “ is the coolant flow total pressure in the
plenum chamber metered by a pressure probe, p,
the coolant flow static pressure at semi-confined
channel outlet, approximately regarded as the
ambient pressure.
In all experiments,the measured tempera-
ture difference (between the surface and ambient)
is at least 10 °C with an uncertainty of + 2%.
The uncertainty of the power supplied to the
heater, is assumed to be the same as the uncer-
tainty of the heat flux out of the heater, that is,
approximately +6%. The uncertainty in the
thermal conductivity of air, given the small tem-
perature fluctuations, is estimated to be less than
+29%. The uncertainty of the flow rate is about
1%. And the measured errors of pressure are es-
timated as 土 3%.Following the uncertainty anal-
ysis based on Moffat'?*!, the maximum uncertain-
ty in the measurement of the average convective
heat transfer is + 8%. The uncertainty in dis-
charge coefficient measurements is estimated in
the order of +5%.
2.3 Baseline validation of single jet impingement
Baseline validation is made to provide checks
on the present measurement apparatus and proce-
dures. The baseline test aiming at a single round
jet employed for this purpose matches that em-
ployed by Gao et al?? with Re; =23 000 and noz-
zle-to-plate distance of 2 diameters. Fig. 2 pres-
ents the comparison of area-averaged Nusselt
number profiles. Here the area-averaged Nusselt
number is defined in terms of the region of radius
(R) surrounding the jet impinging stagnation
point.
numbers under single jet impingement
Fig. 2 illustrates that the averaged Nusselt
number distributions on the impinged plate for
both works exhibite the same behaviors. The
good agreement of area-averaged Nusselt number
distribution with Gao et all?! validates the experi-
mental procedures and apparatus employed in the
present study.
3.1 Temperature distributions
Fig. 3 presents the temperature distributions
on the constant heat-flux (g=5 000 W/m?) heat-
ing foil surface under orifice-to-target spacing z,/
d=2 and spanwise pitch y,/d=3. Fig. 4 presents
3.2 Heat transfer coefficients to that of single-row case. With regard to the
Heat transfer variations with the impinge- double-row case, the interaction of the jets from
ment distance z,/d have been investigated exten- front row and rear row will play an important role
sively, A few laterally-averaged Nusselt number in the heat transfer, In the case of z,/d=1, the
profiles extracted from these measurements are stagnation Zone corresponding to each row may be |
displayed in Fig. 5. seriously éffested by the other row. The junction |
As a consequence, it is notable that the im- effect muy be supérior to confinement effect, re-
x/d
(a) Re;=16200,,/d=4
ferent z,/d
sulting in tremendous heat transfer enhancement
under z,/d=1.
crease of y,/d. With regard to the double-row
case, the increase of z,/d extends the impinging
cooling region. Besides, there is a little decrease
of heat transfer coefficient in the region between
two row impinging holes,
ferent y,/d
By comparison of the single-row and double-
row cases, it is found that the laterally-averaged
MNusselt number distributions within the zone of
the first row of double-row case do not fit perfect-
ly with the single-row case. Downstream of this
region, heat transfer is drastically reduced in the
single-row case since the impingement is not effi-
cient any more whereas the impinging jets from
ferent .z`′′/d
the secondary row maintain high heat exchanges
in the double-row configuration,
It is noticed that the quantity of air used to
impinge the target is associated with the number
of impinging jets and the impingement Reynolds
number. Therefore, one should not compare di-
the overall cooling efficiency of the different 1m-
pingement configurations and to compare these
different impingement cases directly, one can
work at a fixed mass flow rate of coolant per unit
area of cooled surface G;'**). In the present study,
G, is expressed as
where G; represents the air quantity devoted to
the cooling of a given area (as seen in Fig. 1) sur-
rounding the impinging jet.
For the sigle-row jet impingement with z,/d
一 2, the area-averaged Nusselt numbers are ex-
pressed as functions of G in Fig. 8. It is interest-
transter rate will be certainly increased at a fixed
value of Gi. As an example, for G fixed at 8. 5,
area-averaged Nusselt number is increased by
20% when changing the impingement configura-
tion from y,/d =4 and Re; 一 28 400 to v./d=75
and Re; = 34 800. Furthermore the influence of
y,/d on area-averaged Nusselt number seems
more significantly under the larger impingement .
Revnolds number.
know, the jets from the first row impinging holes
form uneven cross flow relative to the down-
stream jets, which deflects the downstream jets
from the normal direction and weakens the con-
vective heat transfer capacity of downstream jets.
Simultaneously, the secondary jets behave as
"disturbed pins’ to the cross flow, which often
enhances the convective heat transfer capacity of
cross flow. The contradictory aspects are respon-
sible for the complicated heat transfer features
along downstream of the first row. In the case of
z,/d=1, the impingement jets maintain stronger
penetration in the surrounding fluid, which is
weakly affected by the cross flow. At the same
time, the cross flow is strengthened more obvi-
ously, so that the heat transfer enhancement
shows advantageous in the region corresponding
to the secondary row. While in the case of a lar-
ger z,/d, the jet penetration is decadent to be
tive heat transfer of the cross flow is also weak-
en, and the laterally-averaged Nusselt number is
the peak Nusselt number on the first row.
3.3 Discharge coefficients
ence of z,/d on the discharge coefficients in the
tested for the single-row case, which indicates
spanwise jet-to-jet pitch is smaller.
z./d
Re, 10°
(D) z/d=4 .
Fig. 10 Discharge coefficients vs. Re; under different:
「yn/7口EE【
, Re N10’
Fig. 11 Comparison of discharge coefficients
row case. It can be found that the discharge coef-
ficient in the double-row case decreases compared
with that of the single-row case at the same im-
pingement Reynolds number. Due to the interac-
tion of jets between adjacent streamwise rows,
the flow loss inside the channel increases, which
is contributed to the decrease of the discharge co-
efficient.
4 Conclusions
: Experimental investigation is conducted to
investigate the flow and heat transfer perform-
ances of impingement cooling inside semi-confined
channel. Effects of impingement Reynolds num-
ber, orifice-to-target spacing and hole pitch on
the convective heat transfer coefficient and dis-
charge coefficient are revealed. The results are
summarized as follows:
(1) The impingement distance z,/d=2 leads
to the highest local heat transfer over the range of
impingement distances tested for the single-row
case. The impingement heat transfer is enhanced
with the increase of impinging Reynolds number
or the decrease of spanwise jet-to-jet pitch.
(2) The laterally-averaged Nusselt number
distributions within the zone of the first row of
double-row case do not fit perfectly with the sin-
gle-row case. The optimum impingement distance
is z,/d=1 in the double-row case, And the later-
ally-averaged Nusselt number is reduced on the
second row compared to the first row at larger
impingement distance.
(3) The spanwise jet-to-jet pitch has an im-
portant effect on the discharge coefficient. A
smaller jet-to-jet pitch generally results in a lower
discharge coefficient. This influence is more sig-
nificant under the higher impingement Reynolds
number. The discharge coefficient in the double-
row case is decreased relative to the single-row
case at the same impingement Reynolds number.
