火箭应用  大有作为
提到火箭,人们很快想到运载火箭,它把各种卫星、宇宙飞船、空间站和星际探测器送上太空,为科学技术发展作出了巨大贡献。我国的运载火箭在许多方面已达到世界先进水平。长征系列运载火箭已投入使用了9种型号,形成长征家族,可以满足当今世界发射市场各种卫星的发射服务要求。除了运载火箭之外,火箭在其他领域还有许多应

运载火箭 模型火箭 增雨 滑轨 架线 种型 降落伞 发射服务 西康铁路 终南山  

0 Introduction
Aircraft aerodynamic surfaces are subject to ice
accretion when flying through clouds of supercooled
water droplets, ice accretion on the wing or on the
tail wing can lead to serious degradation of the aero-
dynamic performance, such as an increase in drag, a
decrease in the stall angle, altered moment charac-
teristics of the aircraft and a decrease in lift. More
importantly, ice accretion on propellers or engine
nacelles can cause dangerous accident when the ice
accretion breaks free. Traditionally, the design of
de-icing and anti-icing systems is based on the im-
pingement limits corresponding to Mean Volumetric
Diameters (MVD) of 40pm or less, which is cur-
rently defined in Appendix C of the Federal Aviation
Regulation (FAR) 25 regulations. SLD (MVD 一
40pm) induce severe icing conditions, cause water
film run back on longer distances and freeze beyond
the areas protected by the anti-icing system, when
the de-icing system is activated, the dangerous ridge
ice accretion can occur on the wing behind the lead-
ing edge de-icing system, In fact, in two relatively
recent aircraft accidents ( ATR-72 commuter at
Roselawn, IN, in 1994 and Embraer-120 twin tur-
boprop at Detroit in 1997) the primary cause has
been attributed to ice ridges due to SLD. A
research program on aircraft in-flight icing conducted by
and Ottawa showed that SLD occurred 41% of the
time during in-flight icing conditions experienced
near Ottawa and 73% near St. John’ 8S, SO these
dangerous conditions are quite frequent,
It is very clear that the design of anti-icing and
de-icing system based on the MVD of 40um is insuf-
ficient, and an extension of numerical approach to
account for SLD effects is needed. The problem is
such an extension is difficult for the SLD regime vi-
olates some assumptions made by Bourgault et all?l,
The first one is SLD do not travel at the freestream
velocity because of their large MVDs, SLD no lon-
ger enjoy a stable velocity,so an additional velocity
component needs to be introduced in the initial ve-
locity. The second one is SLD are prone to deform
under the influence of shear forces, resulting in an
oblate disk shapes. The last one is the splashing and
rebound effects may lead to partial deposition of the
impinging droplet mass.
Many researchers have done lots of work to
take into account the effects of terminal velocity,
droplet deformation, splashing and rebound. One of
the detailed experimental studies was performed by
Stow who reported on the impact of water drops on
a dry surface’. Khan and Richardson derived an
expression to take into account the effects of termi-
nal droplet velocity!??. Yarin and Weiss proposed a
splashing model as a type of kinematic discontinui-
tyl??. Bai and Gosman did a lot of work on rebound
model”. In china, many people have done research
on numerical simulation of ice accretion, such as Yi
Xian, Wei Dong , Wang Jiangfeng et al[810] but few
people did research related to SLD regimes, Jian-
ping Hu and Zhenxia Liu did a research on SLD im-
pact behaviors on Aero-engine Strut in 201114,
In this study, an Eulerian droplet tracking
method together with models for splashing and re-
bound are described. First of all, the splashing and
rebound model calibration is needed. A recent study
performed by Papadakis facilitates the calibration of
the modeln21, The experiment was carried on a NA-
CA23012 airfoil of 1. 8288 span over a large range of
conduct the calibration work. To examine the accu-
racy of the model, the splashing model was then
used along with the rebound model to generate ice
shapes on a NACA0012 airfoil, the dataset chosen
was reported by Potapczuk in 200331, To establish
the model’ s applicability to arbitrary geometries,
flow conditions and droplet size distributions, a
three-element airfoil consists of a slat, a main ele-
ment and a flap was chosen to evaluate the effects of
SLD on the impingement results and predicted ice
…1c〔:]亡e′[:i(〕~n1二1′薹_l5二_.
1 Formulation and numerical method
1.1 Governing equations for gas phase
The flow field for air can be obtained by solving
the Reynolds-Averaged Navier-Stokes (N-S) equa-
tions. Numerical approach is based on the finite vol-
ume form of the integral equations. In a domain of a
volume 2 with boundary 3, the equation can be
written in the integral form:
晕王王〔〕亘(i\/」「Ia′】妄晏_「。.ndS=g|F.、AdS(1
The vector of the conserved variables, the con-
vective flux term, and the viscous flux term are giv-
en as follows, respectively.
The Cell-centered finite volume method is em-
ployed to solve the N-S equations, and the Lower-
Upper Symmetric Gauss-Siedel ( LU-SGS ) algo-
rithm for time marching, Roe Flux Difference Split-
ting scheme for the spatial discretization of the con-
vective flux is implemented into codes. The treat-
ment of the far field boundary condition is based on
the introduction of Riemann invariants for a one di-
mensional flow normal to the boundary, Chi and
proper for simulating ice accretion. The N-S equa-
tions are closed by the S-A model with thermally
perfect gas and temperature-dependent properties,
see details in Reference [17].
1.2 Governing equations for droplets
The continuity equation and momentum equa-
tions for droplets are a set of partial differential e-
quations, one of the source terms for the momen-
tum balance will have to be the drag force, since it
is the main force for the droplet phase. The equa-
tions for mass and momentum conservation of the
droplet phase are[18-191 ,
The other source term considered besides the
drag force f4us are gravity force, pressure gradient
force, mass force, Basset history force, Magnus
force and Saffman force.
The drag fore is modeled using the drag coeffi-
cient Cp.
`/`(二丨】′鲁】g=_珙嘉【′J儡_[J(薯丨(4)
Where Re, is the droplets Reynolds number, K is an
inertia parameter, L is reference length, is the
droplet diameter,ps ,D。 ps denote the density of
water, freestream velocity and molecular viscosity
coefficient respectively.
Droplets having large diameter are prone to de-
form under the influence of shear forces, resulting
in the increase in aerodynamic drag at SLD condi-
tions[201 ;
了 二 1.0 一 (1.0 十 0.0R/ HWe ) 一 (7)
Weber number 1S:
Ca and Cas represent the drag coefficients of a
spherical particle and oblate disk, respectively. gy is
the droplet surface tension,
_′【〉g艾`zl\′it}′=_〈二l>_【′:)酞/K)(_【)_矗熹玄(9
Froude number is expressed as[211 ;
The Saffman force describes a lift force for
small particles, it is more important for small parti-
cles than for the larger particles that are being stud-
ied. The Basset force models the effect of the
change in drag as a function of time which is used to
model the flow of gas bubbles, this effect is unim-
portant for present study, since the viscosity of air
is much less than that of droplets. Saffman and Bas-
set forces can be safely ignored based on calculation
in LEWICE. For large droplets with big inertia,
Magnus force is negligible. The ratio of mass force
to the drag force, is of the order of 10* in icing con-
ditions, since ice accretion involves no shock wave,
so the pressure gradient force can be neglected rea-
sonably.
The finite volume method is applied to dis-
cretize the governing equations, the convective term
is discretized using the QUICK (Quadratic Upwind
Interpolation of Convective Kinematics) scheme,
and the deferred correction method is used to ensure
the diagonal dominance in the discretized equations.
In order to guarantee the stability of the iterative
solution of algebraic equations,the source term is
disposed linearly, the Alternating Direction Implicit
(ADD iteration method is utilized to solve the alge-
braic equations. In the Eulerian method, the setting
of the wall boundary condition is very important in
the calculation of collection efficiency,a permeable
wall boundary condition is applied to simulate the
droplets’ impingement onto the wallt???,
2 SLD model
2.1 Terminal velocity of droplets
Khan and Richardson used a dimensionless Gal-
ileo number defined as a function of physical proper-
ties of the droplet and gas phase to account for the
terminal velocity,
Ma
Terminal Reynolds number is:
The corresponding terminal velocity can be ob-
tained from terminal Reynolds number:
given MVD is determined, the initial velocity may
be changed accordingly (three dimensional case) ;
2.2 Interactions between droplet and ice accreting
surface
Bai and Gosman collected a number of results
from literature and tried to identify some threshold
levels in terms of dimensionless numbers for impact
droplets when impact occurs(Fig. 1),
Fig.1 Schematic of droplet-wall interaction mechanisms
图 1 水滴和物面相互作用示意图
Stick, We<2
Rebound, 2 一 We 一 10
Spread, 10<<We<(1320La??*
accounted for automatically in governing equations;
rebound and splashing mechanisms are required to
The model tor mass-loss due tO spiasning in
SLD conditions by Honsek is used'?!, the mass-loss
coefficient is expressed as:
With the Ohnesorge number defined as:
Trujillo determined the number of secondary
Ky is a function of the non-dimensional surface
roughness ks, ,
Cosali number is similar to Rom :
K., 二 Oh 圣 。 We (20)
When splashing occurs, the normal and tangen-
tial components of secondary droplet velocities are
determined by functions based on the experimental
data reported by Mundor25 ,
The average size of secondary droplets can be
? determined by:
乙z…一二〔Z〔旨}一)了乙z(23)
About rebound, the components of velocities
follow the expressions below:
TT VL. U 0 “ U UVODD U
Where § =90 — arctan (GL)
For an Eulerian method, the splashing and re-
bound phenomenon cause mass loss, this phenome-
non is implemented by defining a splashing bounda-
ry condition and a rebound boundary condition,
which means adding a source term to the flux in the
mass and momentum equations at the wall bounda-
ry, the source terms for mass equation are:
The source terms for momentum equations are:
With source terms M and 〖 included, the fol-
lowing droplet governing equations are obtained:
冒'z急Z…_<量王′′_′_v“【()【粤′,乏【J【z′〉乏_基_z\左S【)】富】l暴蚤【】_鲁__Z\4[)(〕′l1n【:E′_'?_0(30)
Where i=1,2,++,N,, indicates the droplet bin,
3 Collection efficiency
The collection efficiency shows the distribution
of liquid on ice accreting surface, with the solution
of droplet volume fraction, a, and the distribution
of velocity, the collection efficiency 8 can be ob-
tained with the following expression;
Where n is unit vector normal to wall, 口 。 and qo.
are the velocity and the droplet volume fraction of
far field.
4 Icing model
The icing model is based on the model proposed
by Messingerr2“1,the icing model consists of mass
and energy conservation equations, for each control
volume, tne COonservdrion equdrion OI aropletr mass
can be described as follows,
Mimp + Miowin 一 92flowout 一 Mice 一 Msub 一 Meva 二 0
Where mn, is the flux of impinging droplets, mown
is the total mass flux entering the control volume
from the previous control volume, yztlowou is the total
mass flux flow out of the control volume, m,. is ice
accumulation in the control volume, m,, is the flux
due to ice sublimation in control volume, m.,, is the
flux caused by water evaporation in control volume
under consideration.
The improved thermal conservation equation
can be expressed as the following ,
Qc[)】'】tj + Qimp + Q.va + Qc. + Qeonv + Qin +
Qo + Quiowin + Qitowout =0 ( 34 )
Where Qo is conductive heat through the ice accre-
ting surface,Qim is the heat carried by impinging
droplets, Q.., is the heat transfer induced by water
evaporation, Q,. is the freezing heat stored in accre-
ted ice, Qn is convective heat,Qu is aerodynamic
heating by airflow, Q,, is heat transfer caused by
ice sublimation,Qaovi is the heat added into the
present control volume from previous control vol-
ume, Qtowout is the heat transfer out of the control
volume, further information may be found in Refer-
ence[25] .
5 Results
5.1 Model calibration with NACA23012
Papadakis performed experiment with different
MVDs for a NACA23012 airfoil at angle of attack e-
quals to 2. 5°, one case of MVD equals 111pm was
selected to carry on the calibration work, the select-
ed case and the corresponding conditions are shown
in table 1. In order to get more accurate results,
droplet size distribution of Langmuir D is employed
for selected case. The splashing and rebound model
mentioned above are implemented into present
code, it is easier for Eulerian method to implement
re-injection phenomenon than Lagrangian method
does. The catching efficiency with splashing and re-
bound effects is compared with the catching efficien-
cy without the effects as well as experimental re-
sults. The catching efficiency calculated is shown in
Fig. 2, a dramatic improvement is observed when
the SLD model is employed. Due to the SLD
effects, the catching efficiency decreases almost eve-
rywhere, especially near the impingement limitation
as shown in Fig. 2. It should be noted that over-pre-
dicted decrease occurs near leading edge and im-
pingement limitation. Anyway, close agreement
with experimental data can be obtained by taking in-
to account the SLD effects.
Table 1 Test conditions for model calibration
裘1模型验证计算条件
a/(") 2.5
Uo /(m es!) 78.22
MVD/xm 111
Chord/m 0.9144
二 WC/Cg, rm3 ) 0.5
P../kPa 94.8
Fig. 2 Water collection efficiency of NACA23012
图 2 NACA23012翼型水滴收集率
The Liquid Water Content (LWC) can be ob-
tained easily since the full field of the droplets can
be provided by Eulerian method, the calculated
LWC for selected case is shown in Fig. 3 for this
case, there is apparent difference in the LWC with
and without SLD effects, especially near the leading
edge, showing a region of increased LWC concen-
tration, The reason for this is once the splashing
effect occurs near leading edge, the splashed sec-
ondary droplets are re-injected into a smaller bin
corresponding to the diameter closest to the second-
ary droplet diameter obtained from the splashing
model,
From the above discussion, the proposed math-
ematical model may be considered mathematically
consistent and physically representative,
The splashing model is then used along with
the rebound model to generate ice shape on a NA-
CA0012 airfoil, the selected case 1s Run 1-23 which
was reported by Potapczuk!?!, the calculate condi-
tions are shown in table 2. The same as NA-
CA23012,Langmuir D distribution is used here.
The comparison shows a slight decrease in the over-
all shape when the splashing model is activated, as
illustrated in Fig. 4d, the calculation captures the o-
verall size and shape of the experimental ice shape,
whereas the calculation is unable to reproduce the
detail of the ice shape surface nor is it able to depict
the small structures aft of the main ice shape. The
using of the SLD model decreases the amount of ice
accretion almost everywhere, especially near the aft
limits of the ice shape.
For the calculated ice shape, corresponding wa-
ter collection efficiency is shown in Fig. 4c,collec-
tion efficiency decreases after accounting for SLD
effects, especially near icing limit whereas unappar-
ent decrease near leading edge. Since breakup oc-
curs only in regions of high velocity gradient,so
Table 2 Parameters for ice accretion on NACA0012
表 2 NACA0012冰形预测计算条件
Case no Case 1-23
t/s 714
T/K 253.95
MVD/um 70
c /(m est) 77.0
工 WCA(g。 3 》 0. 65
a/ ( ) 0
Chord/m 0.5334
(a) Liquid water content distribution without SLD effects
(b) Liquid water content distribution with SLD effects
edge, while rebound phenomenon dominates near
the icing limit. This explains why catching efficien-
cy decreases more severely near icing limit, for the
mass-loss coefficient equals to 1 when rebound oc-
curs, when it comes to splashing, the mass-loss co-
efficient is less than 1.
Fig. 4b shows the LWC distributions for the SLD
effects around the airfoil, near the suction and pres-
sure side of the airfoil, there are two symmetry
shadow zones in which droplet volume fraction near-
ly equals to zero, the calculation with SLD effects
have smaller shadow zone than the calculation with-
out SLD effects. Particularly, SLD effects which
are the splashed and rebounded phenomenon due to
the droplet-wall interaction are observed as a result
of LWC distributions, Fig.4b demonstrates that
SLD effects tend to enhance the LWC concentration
around the airfoil.
5.3 Ice accretion on three-element airfoil
In this section, a high lift airfoil section is se-
lected to address the needs of large transport air-
craft, it is an advance high lift system which de-
signed in the early 1990「s. The three element airfoil
consists of a slat, a main element and a flap with 36
inches chord. For this case, only the landing config-
uration is considered in this investigation, for the
landing configuration the slat deflection is 30° lead-
ing edge down and the flap deflection is 30° trailing
edge down, the definition of deflection of the high-
lift components is set with respect to the main ele-
ment wing reference plane. The gap and overlap are
defined to depict the slot size between the main ele-
ment and the high lift components. Gap is the mini-
mum distance between the leading edge of the
downstream element and the trailing edge of the up-
stream element, for the flap, the gap is 0. 457 in-
ches and for the slat it is 1. 062 inches. Overlap is
the horizontal distance from the leading edge of the
downstream element and the trailing edge of the up-
stream element, the overlaps for the flap and slat
are 0.09 and -0. 9 inches respectively. Test parame-
ters are in table 3, the temperature for the ice accre-
tion is 260. 65K, Langmuir D distribution is used to
compute the overall impingement distribution.
Table 3 Parameters fir ice accretion on three-element airfoil
表 3 一殿翼冰形预测计葛桧件
t/s 600
工 WC/(8,rm3》 0.22
a/() 4
Chord/m 0. 9144
Po /kPa 101. 325
are shown in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7 respectively, around the
airfoil, some shadow zones appear near the pressure
side of the slat and flap, the suction side and the
trapped vortex area of the main element. Droplets
splashing, rebound and re-impingement had rela-
tively greater effects on the flap element compared
to the slat and main element, for concentration
zones (Fig, 6b) are observed near the leading edge
of the flap and the pressure side of the three-ele-
ment airfoil, which are thought to be contributed by
the splashed droplets. As shown in Fig. 7, all ele-
ments experience significant mass loss due to drop-
let splashing and rebound process, which means
SLD effects can not be ignored. Fig. 7 also shows
that accounting for SLD effects has resulted in a
better agreement with the experimental impinge-
ment distributions for all the elements, especially
for slat and flap elements. The collection efficiency
near the trailing edge of the flap is over-predicted
slightly while an under-prediction collection efficien-
cy is found in the main element, this is very likely
due to the sensitivity of the droplet rebound model
Fig.6 Liquid water content distribution
围6“三段养液态水含量分布云图
(￠) Flap
Fig.7 Water collection efficiency |
图 7 三赖翼水蒲收集率|
For the icing shape caleulated from the catehing
efficietioy with and without SLD effects, shown in
Fig.8, a of the ice thickness cin be observed
downstream of the leading edge compared with that of
without SLI) effects. For all the elements, there are
significant changes when compared to those ealcu-
lated without SLD effectss so the SLD effects can
not be negligible.
A suitable mathematical model for the droplet-
wall interactions in an Eulerian method has been
proposed and successfully calibrated against experi-
| mental data on the collection efficiency of NA-
‖ SLD model was then used to generate ice shape on a
NACA0012 airfoil. At last an assessment of SLD
effects on the simulation of droplet impingement
and ice accretion prediction on a three-element air-
foil has been presented. SLD effects tend to enhance
the LWC concentration around the airfoil and cause
reduction of collection efficiency near the leading
edge, Droplets splashing occurred in all three ele-
ments with different degree of intensity, the main
and slat elements experienced mainly droplet splas-
hing while the flap element experienced both splas-
hing and re-impingement on the pressure side of the
element,
SLY effects include droplet splashing, rebound
and re-impingement, the splashing and rebound
effects are accounted for by adding source terms into
the governing equations of droplet, the re-impinge-
ment effect is carried on by re-injecting secondary
droplets inte the droplet bin corresponding to the di-
ameter closest to the secondary droplet diameter ob-
tained from the splashing model. The good agree-
ment between experimental and numerical data
shows that the SLD model is feasible and effective,
but the experimental and numerical results still have
slight disagreement, which is possibly caused by the
sensitivity of the rebound model and splashing mod-
el which have only been validated qualitatively due
to the lack of quantitative data and the accuracy of
re-impingement approach, in the future; more
works should be done on the improvement of SLD
model.
Ackaowledgement:
The authors would like to thank Professor Tom
I-P Shih, head of school of Aeronautics and Astro-
nautics, Purdue University, for giving so much
help.
