美国新无人飞行器曝光——海陆通用可运货救人
世界著名军火巨头美国洛克希德-马丁公司，近日在其宫方网站上曝光一款新型垂直起降无人飞行器“ARES无人垂直起降模块化系统”。该飞行器对起降平台要求低，陆地上、军舰上都可以随时起降。根据曝光的设想方案图来看，该飞行器可进行运输给养、运送伤员等重要任务。

无人飞行器 曝光 洛克希德-马丁公司 救人 通用 美国 垂直起降 模块化系统  

HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES 915
bioelectromagnetic characteristics of the human body
(see Fig. 3) (Guja and Iliescu 2001; Guja et al. 1994,
67-74; 2002; 2004, 95-109; 2008b).
oscillating vector), existing on the Earth owing to its rotation around its own axis and, at the same time, to the
annual rotation on the solar elliptical orbit (the axis of the Earth being tilted compared to the elliptical plane)
which determines the existence of seasons. During one「s life, the individual diurnal trajectory is made up of the
two types of rotations. The Earth yearly makes planes that are approximately paralel, successively equal as
number“with the age“ in years ofthe moving object (Guja 2012a; 2012c). This dynamics is common to all the
9 - EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR EAUSALITIES
should simultanéously the laws specific of the ‘contexis with. coekist and. the
Bacis 2008s, 164; Sorokin 194). The resuitént is # complex cyclic-helical trajectory. Tn to. the
rotational ‘speed of the. earth on its the
integralist point of view, and ‘We tried to. refine the analysis of the causes lying
at the basis of man’s development aud. adaptation to the “terrestrial environment” within the of the “
conceived as being theoretically divided (explained) into four components, divisions, stb-coatexts with distinct
included one into the other-and therefore one should Study thelr common as well as specific Taws acting inside,
the living in generat and of man in particular to the 2006; Bertalantly 1976;
HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES 917
2002; 1982; Guja 2013, 1-12). It could also find answers to questions such as: How was deoxyribonucleic acid
(DNA) formed? Why is it like that? (double helix like a spiral); where does the human individual's uniqueness
come from in comparison with the unity of the species? Why are the functions of the vital systems of organisms
cyclic and how can we correct the disturbance of this cyclicity? (Turnbull 1985; Carneiro 2005; Khroutski 2011,
144-146; Guja 2012c, 130-145); it could also help us to better understand and interpret the forms of the
evolutive process such as diversification, convergence/divergence, multiple adaptation, discontinuity,
innovation, progress, etc. (Boncinelli 2006). It may help
us understand why consciousness appeared as a means
of communication with the cosmos. We will further try to develop all these ideas.
2. Proposed Materials and Methods for Study
and Consideration
For a more detailed, anthropological, scientific, systematic approach of the specific, and non specific
contextual influences upon the variability of characteristics that describe the living beings, man, and the group
he belongs to, we considered “the environment” in which we live as a coexistence, an overlapping of four
relatively independent contexts which operate simultaneously on the existence on the Earth: the geophysical
context, the lunar context, the solar context, and the
cosmic context (see Figs. 1 and 2). The geophysical
context includes the System Earth together with the multitude of adjacent interfaces, specific areas of
interaction such as the hydrosphere and the atmosphere.
At the same time, it specifically interacts with the lunar
sphere, with the planetary, solar sphere, and with the Cosmosphere (The Encyclopedia of Earth
<http://www.eoearth.org/>). In order to avoid any ambiguities in interpreting the present paper, we consider it
useful fo define the main terms of the discourse. We did our best to use the most general meaning of the terms
accepted by the scientific language and gave certain details and specifications developed in our previous works
(Guja 1980, 205-220; 1985, 187-199; 1993, 190; 2000, 256; 2008a, 450; Guja and colab. 1997a; Guja et al.
1997b; 1998; Guja and Baciu 2008a, 164).
System—Any object or phenomenon in nature characterized by stability over a certain period of time
owing to the existence of an assembly of constant relations of its component parts (Bertalanffy 1976; Guja and
Baciu 2008a, 164).
Interface—Any process, phenomenon, or spontaneous relation status which is due to the interaction of two
or more systems (Guja 1993, 190; Guja and Iliescu 2001; Guja and Baciu 2008a, 164). The interface may cover
an area, a surface, or a point which forms the common border of the adjacent regions, objects, substances, or
stages by means of which the systems interact both at hardware and software levels. According to the degree of
complexity, they can be placed in order hierarchically:
interface 0, I, II … n. They are in permanent dynamics
and instability, because in reality, there are no totally closed systems. They communicate by means of substance,
energy, or information (by shapes—archetypal, fractal, etc.). For example: the electronic layers and levels of the
atomic nucleus, the cell membrane, the human tegument, atmosphere, cromosphere, etc. (Guja and colab 1997a;
Guja et al. 1997b).
System/interface—The couple of concepts which describes a system with its interfaces that are due to the
states of interdependence with other systems (Guja 1993, 190; 2008a, 450). Any kind of objects have, at the
same time, the quality of system and interface having in view that there are no completely closed systems (Guja
1993, 190; Guja et al. 1994, 67-74; Guja and Baciu 2008, 164).
Information—Fundamental property of matter to communicate in an encoded manner by means of shapes
in the same way mass defines the quality of matter to be attracted by gravitation and energy the quality to
918 HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES
remotely influence by its field (Guja 2008b). Information is the form of communication specific of the interface.
Coexistence—Steady state of interaction (a limited
time interval) of a system with another system or other
systems. The significance of the concept is roughly similar to that of compatibility. For example: coexistence of
atoms in molecules, functioning of organs in the body, the evolution of the Earth and the Moon with the solar
system, etc. (Guja 1993, 190).
Non-coexistence—The state of the interface referring to the existence of incompatible relations for two or
several systems, which leads to disturbances, conflict, and disappearance of interfaces (Guja 1993, 190).
19; 2012c, 130-145; Guja 2013, 1-12).
Cyclicity of context—Specific cycle induced by a certain context. For example: the day/night cycle owing
to the rotation of the Earth around its axis, within solar context, the phases of the Moon, seasonal cycles
induced by the (tilted) rotation on the ecliptic, cosmic
evolutive cyclicity (Guja 2012b, 19; 2012c, 130-145;
2013, 1-12; Sorokin 1947; The Encyclopedia of Earth <http://www.eoearth.org/>).
Adaptation—Transformation process in the structure and functioning of an organism (system) that is due
to the variation of the interaction with another system (or other systems) for coexisting with them. For example:
wings to fly,fins to swim,bipedal posture and verticalization for a better control of the environment,
cerebralization for diversifying the forms of control, regulation and communication (Bertalanffy 1976; Bejan
2000; Boncinelli 2006; Guja 2013, 1-12).
Process—In philosophy, science and systems theory the concept of process has a unifying part which
operates in different systems and contexts, being a characteristic of the dynamic systems.
Aristotle 8 causes—Four causes that refer to four types of fundamental answers to the question “Why?” is
one thing as it is. They characterize the principles of Aristotle’s thinking regarding the cause of change and
movement of things: the material cause, the formal cause, the efficient cause, and the final cause (Ackrill 1997;
Falcon 2008).
Archetypal code—Primary, fundamental communication code: the periodic table of elements, the
electromagnetic spectrum, the genetic code, cultural symbols (Jung 1969; Guja and colab 1997a; Guja et al. 1997b;
Bejan 2000; Guja 2013). They lie at the basis of archetypal informational evolutive adaptation by cognitive leaps.
Informational archetypal communication—A phenomenon characteristic of an interface which ensures and
maintains communication between two or more coexisting systems which is due to the similar archetypal
shapes present in them (Guja and Iliescu 2001; Guja 2008a 450; 2011, 407-426). Inter-systemic communication
by interface is made by means of archetypal shapes
(codes). It is possible special cycles imposed by the
dynamics of fundamental contexts lie at the basis of archetypal codes, for example: the Periodical System of
Elements, DNA spiral, etc..
Integration—The process resulting from coexistence of certain systems that are due to interface
interaction. The duration in time of the mutual interactions of the complex process of multiple coexistence
confirms the existence, persistence, and evolution of the process (Guja 1985, 187-199; 1993, 190; 2012b, 19).
Cosmic cyclic eco-bio-socio-cultural interface—The sum total of processes and events taking place during
an astronomic year (in space and time) in the whole human society on the Earth which are resumed and
evolutively taken over the next year and depend on the
cyclic variation of the contexts Earth-Cosmos (diurnal,
monthly, seasonal) (The Encyclopedia of Earth <http://www.eoearth.org/>).
Integronics—It is a generic name proposed for the study field of the phenomena of coexistence and no
HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES 919
coexistence of systems by means of interfaces. The theory of integronics mainly deals with revealing the laws
governing the coexistence phenomena of the systems via communication at interface level. The phenomenon of
integration by interface is complementary and contradictory to that of homeostasis (Guja 1980, 205-220; 1985,
187-199; 1993, 190).
3. Results and Discussions
We have used these concepts to describe in detail the concept of environment with the help of the four
subdivisions of the cosmic global context (see Figs. 3, 4 and 5), and a possible cosmic model of this was
suggested (see Figs. 6 and 7). We also put in a table possible correlation of the characteristics of these contexts,
selective adaptation to them and Aristotle’s causalities—Tables 1 and 2. In this structure, we could perceive the
presence of a more substantial cosmic organization of our terrestrial environment, which, like the internal
medium of the living organism, is an integrated part of the whole cosmic organism.
dominant, generic, and representative, selected from
our researches, which are correlated with the applied
experimental electrical voltage steps: (1) Linear shapes for reduced voltages; (2) Ramified (branched) for a
higher level; (3) Circular-radial corresponding to a
superior level; and (4) Complex, radial-helical for
maximum voltages over which electrical perforations occur (Guja and Iliescu 2001; Mandelbrot 1983).
The motivation for the selection of these signal
types originates in the results of a long time personal
research using an original method (Guja 1980; 1985; 1993; 2000; 2008a; 2008b; Guja et al. 1994, 67-74; 1997b;
920 HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES
1998; 2002, 39; 2004, 95-109; 2008b; Guja and colab
1997a; Guja and Iliescu 2001; Guja and Baciu 2008a,
164) regarding the interaction of the living systems with the environment via the natural electromagnetic field
existing around us. They highlighted the presence of the same signal shapes (electrical discharges) with all the
living and non-living bodies. These shapes are well known, very familiar to us as they are “materialized” in the
shapes of the objects existing in the environment. The shapes are: linear, ramified, floral, and helical practically
having an infinite number of manifestation modalities (fractal phenomena). The presence of these dynamic types of
shapes may be determined by the specific action of the four interdependent fundamental contexts, i.e.: (1)
Terrestrial gravitational context, (2) Terrestrial-moon gravitational context; (3) Solar-terrestrial-moon
electromagnetic gravitational context; and (4) Electromagnetic gravitational global context: specifically cosmic
radiative background.
Ubiquitous arborescent ramifications for the “vegetal skeleton” (the tree of life); (3) Annual growing circles as
a consequence of a complex adaptation (dominantly gravitational?); (4) Radial foliation orientation on the stalk:
(5) Flowers in concentric-radiative orientation, also
ubiquitous shapes in vegetal development; and (6)
Radial-helical orientation on the vegetal growing axis (Bejan 2000; Mandelbrot 1983).
Could these shapes be the consequence of the coexistence of the millenary dynamics of the four contexts
which structured themselves as information in the genetic code and in the genome, which took, in its turn, a
linear, concentric-radial, spiral-helical shape and is stored in the living cell nucleus—the DNA molecule?
In Fig. 5, Archetypal, primary, generic shapes present all over the living world, which may be associated
with the electric discharge shapes we identified to play the part of a code of signal shapes for the interface
HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES 921
between the living systems and the electromagnetic field in the environment: (1) Simple linear shape (the place
vertical —the direction of the gravitational force); (2)
Arborescent shape,facilitated by the presence of the
moon gravitational force? (3) Circular-radiative shape (floral) facilitated by the specific radial-radiation
propagation of the solar electromagnetic waves?; and (4) Spiral-helical shape facilitated by the dynamics
specific of the Cosmos? (Jung 1969; Guja 2008b).
These ubiquitous shapes in the living and nonliving world are to be found as symbolic shapes in human
culture. They are disclosed to the mind and used as archetypal signs of communication common to the human
species as well as to the entire living and nonliving world. This fact may entitle us to assign them the part of
informational communication codes (Guja 2008b) for the fundamental contexts which imposed them.
|￠
\/【
\一人
Fig. 6. Schematic Representation of Our Eco-bio-psycho-socio-cultural Life “Environment” With the Four Divisions.
922 HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES
In Fig. 6, Schematic representation of our eco-bio-psycho-socio-cultural life “environment” with the four
divisions—contexts making up the Cosmic Context. We mentioned possible correlations among these fundamental
contexts and the differentiated adaptation of living systems
We can notice that the structuring of the four contexts reminds of the theoretical model of the atom in
which the part of the atom is played by the Earth (see Figs. 6, 7).
We, people, living components with conscience, “statistically and probabilistically“populating the Earth
tend to assault the superior contexts (energetic and informational levels) in order to communicate and contact
other “cosmic entities” to survive in the apparently unlimited future (Hawking 2001, 224; Smolin 2000). All the
assertions are, undoubtedly, only hypotheses at the moment! (Do not kill the writer!)
Communication phenomena
目一一-
一一一11
Fig. 7. Integrom (Guja and colab, 1997a; Guja et al. 1997b). Fundamental Structural Archetype (Guja 1997).
Starting from the organization similarity of the Universe entities, we have built a fundamental structural
archetype, called INTEGROM, following two phenomenological principles:
(1) The communication between the integrom components is made at the level of their interfaces;
(2) The communication at the level of interfaces is made through archetypal codes, specific to each structure level.
It is worth reminding here that we started from the
idea that all the objects and phenomena on the Earth are,
at the same time, under the influence of the gravitational force, of the systems in its natural environment, the
gravitational force of the Moon, the gravitational force and electronic field emitted by the Sun as well as in the
radiating and corpuscular fields coming from the Cosmos (see Fig. 3). They all vary periodically, cyclically
according to laws specific of each system/interface which is fundamental for our existence. They are distinct,
permanent and simultaneous causes that led to the birth and evolution of “Our Home—The Earth.” All the
phenomena in Nature, the living and nonliving bodies and the people coexist in these environmental conditions,
which mean that we are compatible with them, we have developed together and, in time, adapted to them. The
HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES 923
ones that could not coexist, which proved incompatible with these complex conditions failed to adapt and
disappeared. We should also keep in mind that our whole bio-psycho-socio-cultural life bears the print and
functions within a calendaristic framework determined
by coordinates of the context of our planet within the
context of the Universe (The Encyclopedia of Earth <http://www.eoecarth.org/>).
We have organized our life and adapted biologically and socio-culturally to the multiple, complex
influence of cosmic structures, which, after knowledge accumulation, have become more and more familiar
from the scientific and psycho-spiritual point of view. The complexity of all these influences, which are
permanently cyclic and on the move in space and time, is expected to be found in the great variability of human
individualities and uniqueness in each of us, in our own genetic formula. Being part of our everyday life, the
Earth, the Moon, the Sun, and the “canopy of heaven” are part of our biopsychosociocultural life. We have
rhythms and biorhythms inscribed in the species genome: carbon cycle during photosynthesis, cell cycle
occurring in a reproducing cell population, etc.. and the organism systems have functions depending on the
periods: day/night (fundamental metabolic cycles), monthly (endocrine cycles), seasonal (reproductive cycles),
and annual (stages of ontogenesis).
From the Earth, we took over the materials which
make us up and the atmospheric and lunar environment
shaped us into a great variety range. From the Sun, we
got the energy required for efficient survival and from
the Cosmos we have the faith and hope that it is there
where the mysteries of our spiritual life hide. We have
never stopped believing and attempting to get to it, more and more conscious of its existence.
it is very difficult to identify and explain these characteristics of the integrating phenomenon by
coexistence in its complexity, as a whole. It is also difficult to “bring” it into the laboratory to be tested. It is
resultants and effects are accessible to reality. They objectivize and validate the coexistence of real system
variants which interact, demonstrating non-coexistence
or perhaps the impossibility to coexist of other variants
experimented in time and eliminated.
4. Preliminary Conclusions
924 HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES
following hypothesis:
Hypothesis 1: Is the Earth the specific material source that supplied the substances characteristic of all
the bodies, systems and processes in our Nature? At the
same time we wondered if the source of the intuition of
Aristotle’s thinking method on the “material cause” was
this very aspect put forth above.
Phylogenetically the living matter has acquied a steady and balanced structure and has evolved by
adapting to the gravitational force specific of the surface of the Earth. This was possible by a verticalization
process of the living structures (plant stalks, animals’ specialized organs for equilibrium and finally homo
sapiens sapiens species verticality meant to cast an admiring and inquisitive look upon the mysteries of the
remote terrestrial contexts, etc.). “Vertical” and “horizontal” positions may have much more profound phylo
and ontogenetic implications than the ones considered so far—such as the horizontal position meant to recover
one’s forces by resting and sleeping. We also underline the position of maximun stability to which water flow in
the natural circuits tends. We could call this type of adaptation terrestrial-gravitational adaptation—adapted to
the immediately surrounding nature, mainly to the lithospheric and hydrospheric factors.
(2) The existence of the lunar salellite (only one,
not several) forms the terrestrial—atmospheric—Ilunar
context (as energetic level 2 and interface 1, see Table
1) which determines the periodical, cyclic, permanent
variation of the resulting gravitational force. In this way life developed, evolved, was shaped and adapted as
such in a variable force field. One may say that the verticality of the living is preserved up to a certain height
characteristic of each vegetable species. A certain “relaxation” may occur, generating ramifications all around
the vertical axis. In connection with this aspect we elaborated the following hypothesis:
Hypothesis 2: Is the cause of the deviation from the vertical axis of the stalks while growing by developing
ramifications originated in the cyclic and oscillating variation of the gravitational force resulting from adding
the terrestrial with the lunar force of opposite sense?
We feel directly the tide as an effect of the Moon
and we accept it as commonplace, but its determining
factor has permanently and systematically acted upon the evolution of the living. I wonder if it has printed its
effect on the genetic support of each species in time. Could the ramified shape in the symbol of the “tree of life”
be the effect of cyclic swinging determined by our saltellite? We further wonder if “the formal cause” of
Aristotle’s principles may have its origin in the action Earth-Moon context. We could call this type of
adaptation ecological adaptation (Geophysical), adaptation to the conditions created by the complex interaction
Earth-Moon.
Table 1
Characteristics of the Fundamental Interfaces of the Earth Structured in the Cosmic Context (Guja 1993, 190; 2000, 256)
HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES 925
Table 2
The Synthesis of the Correlations Between the Adaptation Processes, Fundamental Contexts and Aristotle’s Causalities
(3) The dominating action of the solar context upon the terrestrial existence is mediated (interfaced) by the
energy of its electromagnetic field which it sends incessantly and we receive it variably, cyclicly, daily, and in
seasons (the effect of the Sun upon the Earth being practically constant). As the source of life and the whole
existence on the Earth the solar context has practically led the infinite diversity and variability oriented towards
the efficiency of survival. For these conditions we elaborated the following hypothesis:
Hypothesis 3: Do the efficient survival modalities of flourishing and seasonal reproduction and of
adaptation by the great variability of multiplying processes bear the print of the radial radiative qualities of the
way the electromagnetic field radiated by the solar context propagates?
The efficient radial-radiative shape at the basis of the floral structure in the vegetal world appears like an
926 HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES
archetypal shape on the one hand,characteristic,on
the other variable from one species to another. The
“efficient cause” of Aristotle’s principles may have been intuited thousands of years ago. We could call this
adaptation type: informational electromagnetic adaptation (solar) (Guja 2008b)—adaptation to the day/night
and season variation of the electromagnetic radiation resulting from the double rotation of the earth around its
axis and around the Sun. These adaptations are due to the interactions with the electromagnetic field ofthe Sun.
(4) The permanent and dominating presence of the cosmic context, unknown and intangible as a luminous
cyclic interface by dailight and a dark interface at night (lacking luminous radiations) may have been the main
source of the appearance and development of existential conscience, of the seeking of our enigmatic origin. It is
a response to a permanent requirement, an adaptation to the most extended living context in which imagination
could develop without limits at the same time with objective, scientific knowledge.
Hypothesis 4: Human conscience is an entity seeking meanings and knowldge. Is not it also an adaptation
form of the living matter to the permament requirements of whatever surrounds us and to the cosmic context in
order to find out “the final cause” of our enigmatic existence?
The belief and hope in the cosmic context that should hide the mysteries of our spiritual life has never
ceased and we continued to persevere, to believe and attempt to know them, in this way becoming more and
more aware of the necessity of a beginning and intelligible end that may be known. Continuing our correlations
ofthe influence of the fundamental contexts brought to
discussion with Aristotle’s causalities, we consider that
the final cause of things, at least at present, knowing and making aware of our cosmic existence intuited from
the beginning (Penrose 1989; Marta 2013, 70-75). We could call this adaptation type: cosmic (universal)
adaptation—the requirement of the universal cosmic field.
The final preliminary conclusion would be that, based on the contextual thinking principles outlined in our
paper we could note specific sequential laws: material, formal, efficient, essential for everyday life as well as
more general, final laws of the entire Universe known
so far, which could not be noticed without an adequate
partial analysis.
Works Cited
Ackrill, John Lioyd. Essays on Plato and Aristotle. USA: Oxford
UP 1997.
History, “Uchitel” Publishing House, 2005. 136-59.
---. The Turning Point. NY: Simon & Schuster, 1982.
Publishers, 2009. ISBN 978-1-57912-814-2.
Guja, Cornelia. Antropologie informationald. [Informational Anthropology). Romane: Editura Academiei, 2008a. 450. ISBN
978-973-27-1578-9,
Anthropology]. Edit. Iasi: POLIROM, 2000. 256.
Romanian Academy Price, 1993. 190.
HUMAN ADAPTATION, EARTH-COSMOS CONTEXT, ARISTOTLE’S FOUR CAUSALITIES 927
---. “Biocosmology and Informational Anthropology: Some Common Aspects.” E-Logos Electronic Journal for Philosophy.
2008b. ISSN 1211-0442. <http:/nb.vse.cz/kfil/elogos/biocosmology/guja08.pdf>
---. “Criteres Anthropologiques Pour La Constitution Dune Typologie Humaine Naturelle.” [Anthropological Criteria for a
Human Natural Typology]. Bull. et Mem. de la Soc. D’Anthrop. de Paris, série XIV, No. 2-3 (1985): 187-199. <http://www.
persee.fr/web/revues/home/prescript/article/ bmsap_0037-8984_ 1985_num_2 _2_1579>
---. “Elements of Biocosmological Anthropology: Informational Communication by Archetypal Forms.” Electronic Journal
“Biocosmology—neo-Aristotelism” 2.4. Autumn, 2012a. <http://en.biocosmology.ru/electronic-journal-biocosmology---neo
-aristotelism>
---. Elements of Biocosmological Anthropology: Informational Integration by Archetypal Forms. Book of Abstracts, 2012b. 19:
3rd International Seminar on Biocosmology and 1st International Witten Seminar on Philosophy and Medicine (June 30th
and July 1st 2012, Witten/Herdecke University)
---. “Human Evolution through Informational Adaptations to the Solar Context. Problems of Biocosmological Anthropology.”
html>
---. “Proprietes Bio-Electrigues De L’envelope Cutanee Humaine. Rezultats De Quelques Recherches Experimentales.”
[Bioelectrical proprieties of the human tegument. Experimental resultants]. Bull. et Mem. de la Soc. D「Anthrop. de Paris,
serie XIII, No. 3 (1980): 205-20.
?==. “The Individual 3 Anthropology and Biocosmology. Prerequisites of a Common Informational Methodology.” Vol. Abstract
Book, First International Seminar on Biocosmology, July 22-25, 2010. Russia: Novgorod State University after
Yaroslav-the-Wise, 2010. 78-79. <http://en.biocosmology.ru/home/first-international-seminar-on-biocosmology/abstract
-book-of- the-seminar- 1>
---. “The Informational Anthropological Biocosmological Cultural Model.” Electronic Journal “Biocosmology—neo-Aristotelism”
1.4 Autumn (2011): 407-26. <http://en.biocosmology.ru/electronic-journal-biocosmology---neo-aristotelism/issues-of-the-
journal/volume-1-number-4-autumn-2011>
---. “Model of Cosmic Cyclicity of Terrestrial Human Activities.” Annals of the Academy of Romanian Scientists (A.R.S).—Series
<http://www.aos.ro/site_mod/Editura/2012/ Analenr1pe2012Biologieonline. pdf>
Guja, Cornelia, and Adina Baciu. General Anthropology. Guide Interfaces Theory Vision. Bucharest: Universitara, “Carol Davila”,
2008a. 164. ISBN 978-973-708-282-4. Edit.
Guja, Cornelia and colab. The Human Being—A Biointerface
between Microcosm and Macrocosm. Nr. 1. Edit. Bucharest:
Prospect Anthropos, 1997a.
Guja, Cornelia, and Elena Iliescu, Informational Complexity and Diversity in Electrographic Images. Bucharest: Charme-Scott
Printing House, 2001.
Guja, Cornelia, Petcu Razvan, and Popescu Ondina. “Computer—Aided Study of the Electronographic (EnG) Imprint (Part One).”
Annuaire Roumain Anthropologie, 31, Bucharest, 1994: 67-74.
Guja, Cornelia, Diana Daroczi, and Cristina Boanta. “Methodology for Longitudinal Study of Human Being.” Annuaire Roumain
口 dnihropologie. Bucharest. Edit. 1998. 35. ISBN: 973-683-394-1.
Guja, Cornelia, Ioan Oprescu, and Elena Iliescu et al. The Human Being—A Biointerface of Archetypal Communication. Nr.2, Edit.
Bucharest: Prospect-Anthropos, 1997b,
Guja Cornelia, Rogianu Adriana, and Nica Adriana 8.a.“Bioelectrical Types With Patiens in Acute States (I1).” Annuaire Roumain
Anthropologie, Bucarest. 2002. 39.
Guja Cornelia, Voicu Boscaiu,and Adina Baciu et al. “Types
of Adaptative Variability in Certain Intracranial Calcification
95-109.
Guja Cornelia, Voinea Vasile, and Baciu Adina. et al. “Fractal Analysis of Palms Electrographic Images. Medical anthropological
perspectives.” Journal of Medicine and Life 1.4. October-December 2008b. <www.medandlife.ro/ medandlife194.html>
Hawking, Stephen. The Universe in a Nutshell. Cambridge: Cambridge University, DAMTP, 2001. 224.
Khroutski, Simeon Konstantin. “Triadic Biocosmological Approach in Modern Science and Philosophy.” Electronic Journal
“Biocosmology—neo-Aristotelism” 1. 2-3. Spring/Summer
(2011): 144-146. <http://en.biocosmology.ru/electronic-journal-
biocosmology---neo-aristotelism>
Jung, Carl Gustav. Man and His Symbols. Garden City, NY: Doubleday&Company, Inc., 1969.
