美国开发激光器用于防御敌军导弹
美国加利福尼亚州诺斯罗普-格鲁曼公司航空系统分部激光武器专家正在启动一个军事研究项目，利用激光器防御载人和无人机免受热寻的导弹的袭击。位于弗吉尼亚州的美国国防先期研究计划局（DARPA）与诺格公司签署了一项2020万美元的合同，任务是在DARPA耐力项目第二阶段研制激光武器，保护飞机防御光电和红外（EO／IR）制导地对空导弹的袭击。去年晚些时候DARPA为“耐力”项目第一阶段向诺格公司授予了价值1460万美元的合同。同时得到项目第一阶段合同的是洛克希德。马丁公司任务系统和训练部。

寻的导弹 激光器 防御 美国 DARPA 开发 加利福尼亚州 激光武器  

To protect turbine components from overheating ,
the highly efficient film cooling technique has found
wide application in the marine gas turbines. It has
proved that the accuracy of the predicted turbine vane
thermal load is rather essential for the cooling system
design in the advanced marine gas turbine. Along with
the development of gas turbine,the coolant flow has
gradually increased, which reaches about 20% of the
main stream flow in the advanced aero-engines[11.
Thus the influences of the so-called coolant mixing
process on the flow and blade thermal loads predic-
tions, which are strongly affected by the coolant flow,
have to be detailed investigated.
Because of the complicated physical phenomena
and the rather complex turbine cooling system, there
are mainly two kinds of researches in the air-cooled
turbines; the flow and heat transfer in the cooling air
channels and the influences of the cooling air injection
on the flow in the passage. Such as the studies of
Hou ,Liu 31 , Kampe'*! and Goodrori1, It is noted
that these investigation, for the sake of reducing com-
putational load,assume the solid walls are adiabatic
ones, or specify thermal boundary conditions calculated
by experimental formula. In addition these investiga-
tions also assume the work substance to be pure gas,
neglecting the gas component variation caused by cool-
ant mixing. Thus such studies failed to present accu-
rate thermal loads of the turbines.
The development of computational mechanics and
the computer technology makes it become possible that
to carry out CHT simulations in the film-cooled gas tur-
bines. Kusterer and Bohn'?), Heidmann[71 applied
CHT technique in the gas turbine simulations ,obtai-
ning detailed flow field in the passage and cooling air
channels and blade thermal loads of turbines. With
such technique Dong!??! studied the flow and heat
transfer of a high-pressure vane with film cooling sys-
tem at the leading edge, and Chen! obtained the
thermal load of a turbine vane with full film cooling
technique. Unfortunately these articles also assumed
that the components of gas were same as those of the
cooling air,and they neglected the effect of gas compo-
nent vanation.
The researches on component variation of work
substance induced by mass diffusion are mainly found
in the combustion or multi-phase flow fields". Our
preliminary 碱udyU5〕 has proved that the coolant mixing
would bring considerable effects on the flow field pre-
diction by the simulations of a two-stage turbine ,but
further researches are still needed.
This article aims to study the influences of gas
component variation on the blade thermal load predic-
tion in the air-cooled turbine. The solver is the couple
one, HIT-3D. The test case is a turbine vane in a gas
turbine, which contains dual cooling air channels and a
slot in the blade trailing edge. And there are two kinds
of CHT simulations,one assuming the same working
substance in the passage and the cooling channels ,and
the other taking account of the gas component varia-
tion.
1 Computation Scheme
1.1 Governing equation and discrete methods
The dimensionless conservative governing equa-
tions for multi-component fluid flow in body-fitted coor-
dinates are as follows.
where U = J[p pu pv pw e pY, 1" 1s conservative
variable, J the Jacobin determinant, p gas density, ,e
the internal energy per unit mass, u, v, w are the ve-
locity components in axial, radial and circumferential
directions ; 一 the concentration of cooling air in gas-air
mixture, the vectorsf,, f,, E, F, G, Q, Rand § are
referred in Wang’ s dissertation!"
The eq. (1) is consisted of the N-S equations
and a coolant diffusion equation. Thus it is able to
model the gas component variation induced by coolant
mixing, and to predict flows of gas-air mixture in the
passage. It is noted that the thermal properties of the
mixture are functions of both fluid components and
temperature, and the expressions for specific heat at
constant pressure and gas constant are as follows ;
where C_ is gas constant-pressure specific heat of gas,
C,. air constant-pressure specific heat, f oil gas ratio, 6
a function of temperature.
And gas constant is affected by oil gas ratio also.
r河o
where R is gas constant, and M (f) mole mass
which is a function of f.
The semi-implicit method is employed to solve
above equation, and the difference schemes selected
are a third-order TVD ( total variation diminishing)
scheme for convective terms!!! and the second-order
central scheme for the diffusive terms.
The B-L algebraic turbulence model is em-
ployed to close the conservative equations, and the
Crawford-Kays formula" is utilized to calculate the
turbulence Prandtl number. The molecular viscosity
and thermal conductivity coefficients are provided by
the Sutherland formula.
The dimensionless governing equation for the heat
transfer in the vane solid regions is the Fourier equa-
tion, which can be reduced by the energy equation of
the eq. (1). And it is solved by Douglas-Rachford al-
ternating direction implicit method”. The direct cou-
pling method" is used to couple the flow field in the
passage and the thermal field in the solid blade. It has
been proved that such method is with more stability
than the indirect coupling method, and that it is able to
accelerate the CHT simulations’?! .
1.2 Vane profile & computational grids
The vane profile and the cooling air channels are
presented in fig. 1. Such vane, which is a low-pressure
one in the marine gas turbine, has got two channels in
26期王强,等:考虑组分扩散的气冷涡轮气热耦合计算7705
the vane, and there is a slot between the second chan-
nel and the passage.
(a) Turbine vane (b) cooling air channels
Fig.1 Vane profile and cooling system
The computational domain is discretized by the
structured grids. To guarantee the grids orthogonality,
the multi-block grids technique is employed, thus the
turbine passage, cooling channels and slot are dis-
cretized by H-O-H type, H-O type and H-C type grids
respectively. The computational grids are shown in fig. 2
as follows.
(a) Grids at S1 stream surface (b) Grids of slots at vane trailing edge
Fig.2 Computational grids
There are 809 760 computational cells in the fluid
domain, and the computational grids are refined near
the solid wall to model the boundary layer exactly. The
dimensionless distance from the adjacent cell centers to
the solid wall y* is controlled less than 5, and numeri-
cal simulations have proved that y* =5. 0 could lead to
grid-independent results.
The solid vane is discretized by uniform 0-C-type
grids. The number of the computational cells is
40 640.
1.3 Boundary conditions and initial conditions
There are five kinds of boundary conditions,in-
let, outlet, periodic in the circumferential direction,
adiabatic wall and fluid-solid interface. The free stream
flows in the axial direction at inlet, exposed to inlet to-
tal pressure and temperature. The free stream at outlet
is subject to the static pressure. The no-slipping condi-
tion is posed on the solid wall. And at the fluid-solid
interfaces continuous temperature and heat flux exist.
Flows in the cooling channels are under the same
boundary conditions as in the passage. For the cooling
air diffusion equation, the concentration of cooling air
is 0 at free stream inlet, and it is with zero-gradient at
outlet. And the concentration of cooling air is 1.0 in
the cooling air holes separately.
Converged flow fields in the passage and cooling
channels are served as the initial conditions. The
measured conditions are listed in tables 1 and 2. The
angles in table 1 are defined as follows:
The operating conditions of the passage and the
cooling air channels are presented in tables 1 and 2 ,
where the pressure and the temperature are dimension-
less ones calculated by following formula;
The p,, and a,, are critical density and sound speed,
calculated by the inlet total temperature of the gas''?! ,
separately, 口 = 287. 3 [J/(kg - K)], the gas con-
stant for pure gas,and the superscript-denotes dimen-
sionless parameters, which is cancelled in the following
part for the sake of simplification.
Table 1 Operating conditions of vane
0. 88 1. 40 0. 88 0 23.15
Table 2 Operating conditions of cooling channels
1 0. 39 1.51 0.94
2 0. 39 1.51 一
(a) 25% span (Labels:0.05-1.15, AMa = 0.055) (b) 50% span (Labels: 0.05-0.95, AMa = 0.05) (c) 75% span (Labels: 0.05-0.85, AMa = 0.05)
Fig.3 Mach number distributions
2 Results & Discussion
As mentioned above two kinds of CHT simulations
are carried out, and the numerical results are discussed
below. It is noted that the constant-pressure specific
heat (cp), the pressure and the temperature in the fol-
lowing figures and contours are dimensionless ones.
The dimensionless cp is obtained by dividing the gas
constant for the pure gas. The dimensionless formula
for pressure and temperature are as equation 6.
The Mach number distributions at 25% , 50%
Fig.4(a) Cooling air distribution at 25% span
and 75% spans, predicted by these two kinds of CHT
simulations, are illustrated in fig. 3. Since the Mach
number distributions predicted by the CHT simulation
of pure gas are similar to those of gas-air mixture, only
the results taking account of gas component variation
are presented. It indicates that the gas flow is acceler-
ated along the negative radial direction, which could
attribute to radial centrifugal force of gas in the annular
cascade. Transonic flow occurs at 25% span, with the
maximum Mach number about 1. 17 hence such span
is selected as the characteristic span.
Fig.4(b) Cooling air distribution near the
trailing edge at 25% span
26期王强,等:考虐组分扩散的气冷涡轮气热耦合计算7707
Fig.5(a) Gas constant distribution at 25% span
(c) Near the trailing edge at 25% (gas-air mixture)
Fig. 6 Specific heat distribution at constant pressure
Fig.5(b) Gas constant distribution near the
trailing edge at 25% span
(d) Near the trailing edge at 25% span (pure gas)
presented in fig. 4 and fig. 5. The cooling air, injected
through the slot at the blade trailing edge, mainly mi-
xes with the gas in the wake, and homogenous gas-air
mixture are obtained finally. It is also shown in fig. 4
that there is almost no cooling air at the fore part of the
vane. The gas constant, function of the gas compo-
nent, is affected by the cooling air concentration, and
it has got the opposite trend of cooling air concentration
distribution in the passage, which attributes to the lar-
ger mole mass of cooling air than that of gas. Otherwise
the gas constant in the whole passage changes rather
slightly, as is shown in fig. 5, with the maximum
(kg + K) ].
The predicted specific heat (cp) of gas-air mix-
ture and pure gas at 25% span are illustrated in fig.
6. There are scarcely any differences at the vane fore
part, but evident differences near the slot, in the wake
and at the passage downstream, where the predicted cp
of gas-air mixture is lower than that of pure gas. Com-
paring fg.6(e) with fig. 6(d) the largest difference
between the predicted cp is about 0. 1, locating at the
regions where there is more cooling air. Then the
effects of gas component variation on the aerodynamic
force and vane thermal load prediction by CHT simula-
tions are discussed below.
As is shown in fig. 7, where the parameters P
and Po are the static pressure at the vane surface and
the total pressure at vane inlet respectively, the predic-
ted profile pressure of gas-air mixture at 25% span is
almost the same as that of pure gas, which reveals sim-
ilar flow, hence similar aerodynamic force, near the
vane. It seems that the gas component variation influ-
ences slightly on the flow in the passage, otherwise the
same assertion could not be applied to the vane thermal
load prediction. Fig. 8 and fig. 9 proved the profile
temperature distributions at 25% span and the vane
thermal loads, respectively. The parameters T and T,"
are the static temperature at the vane surface and the
total temperature at vane inlet separately. It indicates
that the predicted profile temperature of gas-air mixture
has got slight difference to that of pure gas on the whole
vane surface ( caused by different working substance in
the cooling channels,air and gas assumed in different
CHT simulations) except at the fore part of vane at the
pressure side, where the cooling air concentration is
rather large. The predicted profile temperature of gas-
air mixture, at such regions, is higher than that of pure
gas with the maximum difference about 0. 02 ( about 40
K) ,which seems rather lager for the cooling system
design in the advanced gas turbines. Hence the gas
component variation caused by coolant mixing has to be
taken account of in the CHT simulations to obtain ac-
curate vane thermal loads of air-cooled turbines.
3 Conclusions
Compare the numerical results predicted by the
CHT simulation of gas-air mixture flow with that of the
pure gas flow, following conclusions are obtained.
(1) Coolant mixing in the air-cooled turbines
changes thermal properties of working substance. The
gas constant varies slightly, but specific heat at con-
stant pressure considerably, decreasing about 0. 1.
(2) The gas component variation slightly affects
the flow in the vane passage, and there is similar pro-
file pressure on the vane.
(3) The gas component variation significantly in-
fluences the thermal load prediction ,and the predicted
profile temperature near the slot increases about 0. 02.
(4) To accurately predict the vane thermal load,
the gas component variation must be taken account of
in the CHT simulations of flows in the air-cooled tur-
bines.
