航天法有望2020年前正式立法
2014年11月17-20日，由联合国外空司与中国、亚太空间合作组织联合主办的2014年联合国空间法研讨会在北京召开。本次会议由中国国家航天局承办，主题为“推动国家航天立法、加强外空法治建设”。全国人大财经委主任委员李盛霖、工业和信息化部副部长兼国家航天局局长许达哲、联合国外空司司长迪皮蓬，以及来自32个国家及国际组织的航天机构代表和专家学者出席会议，围绕空间法律和政策发展、促进国家空间立法等热点问题进行了深入交流研讨。

国家航天局 立法 空间法 合作组织 法治建设 专家学者 航天机构 国际组织  

Spectral Studies of Oscillations Observed by the High-Latitude Radar and Magnetometers 245
correspond to each other quite similarly to
measurements in two different frames of reference,
with one of these moving against other. An example
of the Doppler shift in magnetic data can be found in
published matters. Namely, the Fig. 4 of Ref. [10]
clearly indicates a frequency shift between magnetic
and Doppler radar data, although Ref. [10] does not
consider such a possibility.
Direct experimental measurements of the frequency
shifts expected encounter serious difficulties, since we
must detect the velocity of ions at the altitude of the
high-latitude ionospheric current that is usually
controlled by the precipitating electrons. Taking into
account these difficulties, Ref. [11] has proposed to
estimate the Doppler shift indirectly by formulating
the spectral study of magnetic data as a search for
hidden periodicities that is the Schuster problem of
spectral analysis [12]. An approximate solution of the
Schuster problem can be found by the Tukey method
using the largest width of the spectral window that
ensures all spectral powers to be strictly positive.
Assuming for hidden periodicities a simple model of
the Doppler-shifted harmonical (i.e., in fact
equidistant) spectrum, the proposed technique
provides its strongest whitening of the noise between
the discrete frequencies searched for, thus finding its
best approximation to the solution of the Schuster
problem. So, the main objective of the present work is
to implement a comparative spectral analysis of the
magnetic and Doppler radar data using indirect
estimates for the frequency shifts in magnetic
observations.
2. Spectral Studies of Magnetic Data
The present work analyzes some high-latitude
events related to the activity of the auroral electrojet.
The general planetary magnetic activity determined by
the index XK, remains weak. To reduce the effects of
nonstationary regimes, the analysis first selects those
events, which retain their auroras within fairly narrow
latitudinal intervals over long periods of time. To
reduce the nonlocality of magnetic measurements, the
analysis uses the magneto-difference signals which are
differences between the meridional magnetic fields
detected by neighboring instruments of the meridional
array of magnetometers. The data analyzed are those
of the Scandinavian ground magnetometers IMAGE.
The geographical and geomagnetic coordinates of the
stations used are presented in the table.
Fig. 1 presents the solutions of the Schuster
problem finding discrete frequencies in the magnetic
data for the event observed on 1st January, 2000 from
12:00 to 16:00 UT. The interplanetary magnetic field
(IMF) observed in this event was predominantly
northward. The maximum absolute value of the
magneto-difference signals in nanotesla (nT),
international abbreviations for the magnetic stations
used, and the frequency distance between successive
spectral peaks in millihertz (mHz) are indicated above
each spectrogram. For the magnetic stations with
the event observed on 1st January, 2000.
246 Spectral Studies of Oscillations Observed by
higher latitudes (shown at the top of Fig. 1), the basic
(fundamental) frequency of the spectrum is 2.5 (2.4)
mHz and the spectra differ from harmonical by a
moderate shift to higher frequencies (the frequency
shift is below the frequency distance between
successive spectral peaks). For the stations with lower
latitudes (shown at the bottom of Fig. 1), the basic
frequency of the spectrum is 2.8 mHz and the spectra
are significantly shifted to higher frequencies (the
shift is above the frequency distance between
successive spectral peaks). The qualitative difference
between the spectra found permits to expect a
difference in their origins.
Fig. 2 presents the spectrograms obtained for the
event observed on 21st January, 2004. from 14:00 to
18:00 UT. In this event, the IMF vector was
predominantly southward. The notations in Fig. 2 are
the same as those in Fig. 1. Each time series analyzed
in magnetic data contains 1,440 measurements. The
high-latitude stations reveal a basic spectral frequency
of 0.9 (1.0) mHz and a moderate shift to higher
frequencies.
3. Spectral Studies of Doppler Radar Data
This work analyzes the Doppler data obtained by
the Norwegian STARE radar for the auroral events
considered. For this purpose, the analysis selects a
sequence of points reflecting the radar emission, and
these points approximately follow the meridional
array of the IMAGE stations. The points selected are
indicated by the following notations: (2;41), (3;36),
(4;31),(5;28),(6;26),and (7;25), where the first
number indicates the radar beam and the second the
distance range. The beam No. 1 is directed 13.6°
eastward from meridian and each successive beam
adds 3.6° equatorward. The distance no. 1 reaches 495
km from the radar and each successive distance range
adds 15 km. The spectral analysis processes the data
with the Tukey-Hanning spectral window using the
standard technique of window closing. Each time
series analyzed in the radar data contains 720
the High-Latitude Radar and Magnetometers
measurements.
Fig. 3 presents the spectrograms obtained at various
points of radar reflections for the event observed Ist
January, 2000. Latitudes of reflection points increase
upward. The resolution of the spectral window (M) is
the same for all points used. The analysis reveals the
frequencies of 2.4 and 2.9 mHz, with the lower
frequency being found at the higher latitude. These
frequencies are very close to the basic frequencies 2.5
and 2.8 mHz of equidistant spectra revealed in the
corresponding magnetic data. At the same time, the
particular frequencies of the spectral peaks found in
the magnetic data are about 4 mHz and above.
Fig. 4 presents the spectrograms obtained for the
Doppler radar data of the event observed 21st January,
2004. The spectral analysis of these data reveals the
0 4 8 12 16 mHz
Fig. 2 Hidden periodicities in magnetic data of 21st
January, 2004.
Table 1 Coordinates of IMAGE stations.
Abbrev. Geogr. lat. Geogr. long. L CGM long.
HOR 77.00 15.60 13.37 109.59
BIN 74.50 19.20 9.88 108.07
SOR 70.54 22.22 6.74 106.17
MAS 69.46 23.70 6.13 106.42
MUO 68.02 23.53 5.48 105.22
PEL 66.90 24.08 5.04 104.92
Spectral Studies of Oscillations Observed by
Fig. 3 Spectrograms for Doppler radar data of 1st
January, 2000.
Fig. 4 Spectrograms for Doppler radar data of 21st
January, 2004,
frequency of 0.8 mHz, which is very close to the basic
frequency 0.9 mHz of the equidistant spectrum found
in the corresponding magnetic data. Note that the
particular frequencies of the spectral peaks revealed in
the magnetic data are above 1 mHz.
4. Discussion
The differences between the frequencies of
the High-Latitude Radar and Magnetometers 247
particular spectral peaks found in the high-latitude
magnetic and Doppler radar data (compare Figs. 1 and
3 or Figs. 2 and 4, respectively) indicate the frequency
shifts between these two types of data. At the same
time, a satisfactory agreement between the frequencies
found in the radar data and the basic frequencies of the
equidistant spectra revealed in the magnetic data
permits to interpret these equidistant spectra as
Doppler-shifted harmonical spectra with the same
basic frequencies. Such an interpretation appeals to
the fact that the electric fields determined by the
electron drift velocities detected by radars are not
dragged by moving media and, therefore, reveal the
true frequencies in contrast to apparent frequencies
found by magnetometers. In turn, the harmonical
spectra revealed this way can be associated with the
signals of harmonical sources, in particular, with those
generated by vortices (rotators) of the magnetospheric
convection.
The discrepancies between the magnetic
observations and the “magic” frequencies found by
radars [3] can be explained by the Doppler effect
associated with magnetic observations. On the other
hand, the absence of frequency shifts between the
magnetic data and those on the intensity of E-layer
radar reflections [8] can be explained by the fact that
the intensity of E-layer reflections is determined by
the Buneman instability which is controlled by the
difference between the velocities of ions and electrons
that is by the electric current. In other words, both the
magnetic measurements and those on the intensity of
E-layer reflections are observations of ionospheric
electric currents which reveal identical frequencies.
The last but not the least question to be discussed is
that on resonant and driven oscillations. For instance,
can be considered as resonant (there is an indication of
resonant absorption), and the resonance frequency is
about 10 mHz. This comparatively high frequency
At these circumstances, the lower frequencies, i.e.,
248 Spectral Studies of Oscillations Observed by
those of the “magic” range, can be considered as the
frequencies of driven oscillations [6].
3. Conclusions
Discrepancies between the spectral frequencies
found in high-latitude magnetic observations and the
“magic” frequencies found in Doppler radar
measurements can be explained by the Doppler effect
associated with magnetic observations.
The agreement between the frequencies found in the
radar data and the basic frequencies of equidistant
spectra revealed in the magnetic data permits to
interpret these equidistant spectra as Doppler-shifted
harmonical spectra of harmonical sources.
Acknowledgments
The author is grateful to M.G. Deminov for helpful
discussions. The data are collected as a joint
international collaboration under the leadership of the
Finnish Meteorological Institute. This work was
supported by the Russian Foundation for Basic
Research (project code 11-05-00200) and by the RAS
Presidium Program No. 22.
