薄壁零件的超声振动精密切削研究
为了解决薄壁零件的加工变形问题，引入了超声振动切削的新工艺，设计了其中的刀尖微调机构，通过大量的试验，给出了普通切削和超声切削的对比数据，证明了超声振动切削确实能有效提高薄壁零件的加工精度。

薄壁零件 振动切削 刀尖微调  

Sterilization is the complete destruction or
elimination of all viable organisms in/on a food product
being sterilized which destroys yeasts, molds,
vegetative bacteria and spore formers, and extends the
shelf life of food product. Physical nature of product
(food size and shape, product composition and
viscosity) and mode of heating (hot water or steam)
decides the amount of heat delivered during
sterilization process [1]. Sterilization of milk enables
longer ambient temperature storage of sterile milk
without spoilage. However, processing temperature
and time should be controlled during thermal
processing ofcanned milk, due to the heat sensitivity of
the various nutrients (thiamine,o-lactoalbumin and
B-lactoglobulin) present in milk [2]. Thermal
processing time will depend upon the time required to
achieve uniform temperature inside the can. Heat
penetration during thermal process depends upon
product type (liquid or solid) and its thermophysical
properties, shape and size of container and temperature
of retort [3].
Temperature gradient within the liquid causes the
density difference; due to which natural convection
occurs, and it causes slowest heating zone (SHZ) to
move towards the bottom of the can. Temperature in
the energy equation is coupled with the velocity in the
momentum equation as re-circulation of fluid is
entirely due to the buoyancy force [3]. In thermal
processing, it is important to provide adequate thermal
treatment to the SHZ and determine its location with
time in the food can. Computational fluid dynamics
(CFD) can predict the temperature distribution inside
the can along with the position of SHZ at various time
CFD is a simulation tool, which uses powerful
computers in combination with applied mathematics to
model fluid flow situations and aid in optimal design of
industrial processes. In recent years, a rapid
development in the application of CFD in food
processing operations has been witnessed [5, 6]. CFD
is now extensively used to study the thermal processing
of canned food, such as natural convective heating of
canned food [4], effect of temperature on bacterial
deactivation and vitamin destruction in 3D pouches [7],
and technique to determine the sterilization time [8].
Varma and Kannan [9] studied the effect of
sterilization through wall inclinations and can
geometry modifications,besides they also simulated
natural convective heating of canned food in conical
and cylindrical pouches [10]. Ghani and Farid [11]
developed a CFD model for the thermal sterilization of
solid-liquid mixture food in cans. Kannan and
Gourisankar [12] simulated heat transfer analysis of
canned food in a still retort. A CFD model for the
pasteurization of solid-liquid mixture in cans was also
studied for canned peas in water [13]. A CFD model
for pasteurization of canned milk at high (85 “C) and
low (74 “C) temperatures with can at stationary and
rotation mode was studied by Anandpaul et al. [14].
They concluded that 5 rpm rotation was ideal for
thermal processing of milk which caused maximum
inactivation of microbes in shorter processing time.
Recently, Anandpaul et al. [15] developed a CFD
model for thermization (heating at 65 °C) of milk in the
can. However, no work has been reported on CFD
simulation for sterilization of canned milk. Padmavathi
and Anandharamakrishnan [16] developed a CFD
model for thermal processing of canned pineapple
products dipped in sugar solution. Temperature and
velocity profile during the process were well predicted,
using temperature dependent thermophysical
properties of pineapple and sugar solution.
Furthermore, reducing the size of product from slices
to tidbits showed reduction in processing time [16].
The present work was aimed at the development of a
CFD model for the sterilization of canned milk and to
investigate the effect of thermal processing time on
temperature distribution inside the can. Further, study
was extended to investigate the effect of can position
on temperature distribution of milk as well as
processing time. A thermal processing effect on
inactivation of bacteria (based on F-value) was also
investigated.
2. Experimental Methods
2.1 Sterilization of Milk
Experimental setup for the sterilization of milk in a
can is shown in Fig. 1. A smaller size aluminum can
(8.5 cm height and 6.2 cm diameter) was selected due
to its wide range of applicability. One small hole was
drilled at the upper portion of the can and filled with
skim milk (250 mL) having a fat content of less than
0.5%. A pilot scale batch retort was used for
sterilization of canned milk. The batch retort was
allowed to stabilize at the processing temperature of
121 °C, which was monitored through thermocouple T
(Fig. 1). The milk can with a thermocouple was placed
0.02 m from the center at a depth of 0.05 m from the
top of the can. This setup was placed inside the batch
retort for the sterilization process. Temperature was
measured using T-type thermocouples,which were
connected to the data logger (VR-18,Brainchild
Electronics Co. Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan). When the batch
retort attained set point temperature of 121 °C, the milk
can along with the probe was kept into the batch retort
and the timer was started. Time-temperature readings
were recorded for every 60 s interval till it reached
steady state temperature.
2.2 Viscosity of Milk
Milk is a Newtonian fluid and its viscosity is
temperature dependent. There was lack of consistent
data in the literature for the milk viscosity over the
temperature range 10-100 °C; therefore, viscosity of
milk was determined using Ostwald’s u-tube
viscometer. The viscosity of milk as a function of
temperature is given in Fig. 2. Viscosity of milk
decreases with the increase in temperature in the range
of0.002 Pa-s (10 °C) to 0.000407 Pas (100 °C) (Fig. 2).
Fig. 2 Milk viscosity as a function of temperature.
compared to constant viscosity for the entire process A three-dimensional cylindrical structure of the milk
[3].
Temperature (°C)
can was created with fine and uniform mesh (73, 548
nodes) in GAMBIT. The mesh size for the whole can
geometry was optimized and finalized for the better
accuracy and computational time. The meshed
geometry was exported to Ansys Fluent 12 for further
Processing. The finite volume method was employed to
solve the partial differential forms of the continuity
equations using the Semi-Implicit Pressure-Linked
Equations (SIMPLE) method for pressure-velocity
coupling and a first-order upwind scheme to interpolate
the variables on the surface of the control volume due
to its stability with respect to simulation time step size
(set as 1 s). The convergence was taken to be attained at
the root mean square value of less than 10“for pressure,
density and velocity solution variables and 10“ for
temperature. The natural convection heating in liquid
and conduction in solid was simulated for 2,400 s. Dell
workstation T5400 was used for running CFD
simulation. The simulation results were validated with
experimental measurement of temperature (extracting
temperature data from a thermocouple probe point
located at distance 0.05 m from the top of the can and
0.02 m from the center of the can).
3.2 Governing Equations
The software Ansys Fluent 12 was used to solve the
governing continuity, momentum and energy
equations for the defined geometry and associated
boundary conditions. The generalized transport
eduations solved are following [17]:
(1) conservation of mass equation
Eq. (1) is the unsteady, three-dimensional and mass
conservation or continuity equation for the simplified
case of a fluid flow.
where, p is pressure (Pa), L is molecular viscosity
(kg/m-s) and boussinesq approximation is applied for
the density in the body force term (Sm) and as
follows:
temperature at the initial condition, g is the
gravitational force.
(3) energy equation
where, is the thermal conductivity, Cp is the specific
heat capacity and T is the temperature.
3.3 Boundary Conditions
In this study, transient 3D CFD simulation was
carried out with convective heating (steam temperature
was 121 °C with can wall thickness 0.2 mm) with no
slip conditions applied. The can external surface
temperature (top, bottom and side) was assumed to rise
rapidly from initial temperature (30 °C) to retort
temperature (121 °C) and further, remain constant
throughout the sterilization process. Initially the fluid
was at rest with uniform temperature 30 °C.
At the can wall, T = T,,; = 121 °C, h = 1,000
W/m>K,v,=0,v,=0for0<z>Hatr=R;
At the top and bottom wall, 7 = Tval = 121 °C, h =
1,000 W/m*K, v,=0,v.=0for0<r>Ratz=0andz
Initially fluid is at rest and at uniform initial
temperature, 7 =30 “C, v,=0,v.=0for0 <r> Rand
0<z>H.
3.4 Thermo-Physical Properties of Milk
Specific heat was given as constant (4,010 J/kg-K)
expansion () value 0.0002 (1/K) [4]. Viscosity of milk
was obtained by experimental measurements and given
as piecewise linear function of temperature in the
boundary condition of the model. Thermal
conductivity was also given as a piecewise-linear
function of temperature with the following Eq. (5)
obtained from Riedel [19].
k=(326.8 + 1.04127- 0.003377%)
where, k is the thermal conductivity (W/mK), X,,” e
is water concentration and 7 is temperature (K).
3.5 Bacterial Deactivation Kinetics
The effects ofheat treatment and time with respect to
survival of microorganism can be quantified by the
following F-value equation [20]:
The Z-value is used to express the temperature
dependency of the inactivation rate and in this
simulation, Z-value was used as 10 [20]. The heating
temperature of 121 °C was used as reference
temperature (7).
4. Results and Discussion
4.1 Processing of Canned Milk in Vertical Position
4.1.1. Experimental Validation
CFD model predictions were validated with
experimental measurement of canned milk temperature
(Fig. 3). Fig. 3 clearly depicts that the simulation
predictions were in good agreement with the
experimental results. A linear increase in temperature
was observed initially at 180 s and it reached a steady
state temperature of 121 °C at 540 s. The heat transfer
the experimental measured temperature profiles (Fig.
3). A slight variation in the model predictions and
experimental measurements was observed, this may be
due to combined effects of experiment and simulation
limitations. During experiment, location of
temperature sensor may change the liquid flow pattern
and hence it affects the temperature of milk. In the
simulation, thermophysical properties used for milk
and small-scale instabilities produced by buoyancy
effect. The buoyancy-produced structures might have
interacted directly with the existing local turbulence
with the strong coupling where laminar modeling could
not predict this well. In the choice of numerical
coupling scheme for coupling between the momentum
and energy equations, momentum equation may not
have been fed back into the momentum equation
directly and this may have also affected the
temperature predictions [21].
4.1.2 Velocity and Temperature Profiles
Figs. 4a and 4b shows velocity profile of canned
milk during sterilization (121 °C) at processing time of
60 s and 300 s. A uniform velocity distribution was
observed due to all side heating and low viscosity of
milk. In Fig. 4, it can be observed that the upward
movement of milk due to buoyancy effect. Due to
natural convection, the temperature gradient creates a
density difference and the hot milk begins to flow
upwards. Eddy formation was also observed in Fig. 4b,
in the mid region of can due to the presence of thermal
gradient between top and bottom region of the can.
Direction of the velocity vector arrow changed in this
region with smaller eddies formation. In this simulation
study, velocity magnitude was in the range from 0.0046
m/s to 0.0091 m/s. Anandpaul et al. [15] also reported
a gradual increase in velocity at the top central region
of the can during thermization (65 °C) of milk due to
re-circulation of milk inside the can.
Tracking the SHZ was crucial to assess the
effectiveness of the sterilization process. Figs. 5a-5d
shows temperature contours of canned milk during
sterilization (121 °C) at the time intervals of 60, 120,
300 and 480 s. Initially, rapid heating of milk was
observed due to high temperature gradient between
milk (T=30°Cat￠t=0)and can wall (T=121°Cat￠=
0). At the initial stage of heating (60 s, Fig. 5a), SHZ
was formed at the bottom portion of the can due to the
change in viscosity, density and also re-circulation of
can for convection at 121 °C using different heat transfer coefficients.
milk. SHZ was remained stationary at the bottom
portion of can, due to the four sides heating (Fig. 5d).
Moreover, temperature of milk at central plane was
lower than the surrounding regions and this clearly
indicates the SHZ. Similar profile was also obtained by
Ghani et al. [4] which showed upward flow of liquid
near the wall and uniform downward flow at core
region during simulation of canned sodium carboxy
methyl cellulose (CMC).
4.2 Processing of Canned Milk in Horizontal Position
4.2.1 Temperature Profiles
Temperature profile of milk with horizontal can
position is shown in Fig. 6 (a-d). Temperature distribution
sand (4) 430s.
was affected due to the different fluid velocity and thus
formation of different temperature regions inside the
can. SHZ was formed at the bottom of the can due to
the four side heating and it disappeared at 300 s of
processing time. Comparing Figs. 6a-6d with the Figs.
5a-5d, it clearly depicts different temperature
distribution due to the different position of the can
processing. Uniform temperature distribution was
obtained for horizontal can at 300 s, whereas vertical
can needs 480 s of processing time. However,Farid
and Ghani [8] reported that the heat transfer rate in
vertical can was higher than that in horizontal can due
to the stronger effect of natural convection currents in
the former.
4.3 Evaluation of Temperature across Canned Milk
Three different radial positions at bottom (z = 0.01
m), middle (z = 0.0425 m) and top (z = 0.07 m) were
obtained for 60, 300 and 600 s of processing time to
compare the temperature profiles of milk for horizontal
and vertical positioning of can (Fig. 7). Figs.7a-7c
clearly depicts the slight temperature difference along
these positions (i.e., bottom, central and top line) for
vertical orientation of can at 60 s. However, similar
temperature difference was not observed for the
horizontal orientation of can. This may be due to
natural convection heating. Uniform radial temperature
was observed for vertical position of can, whereas
non-uniformity was observed for horizontal
positioning for 60 s of sterilization process (Fig. 7).
Further processing resulted in uniform radial heating of
horizontal orientation of can. Figs. 7a-7c also confirms
that 600 s of thermal processing provides uniform
temperature throughout the can, irrespective of can
orientation (i.e., horizontal and vertical).
4.4 Evaluation of Grashof and Rayleigh Numbers
Grashof and Rayleigh numbers were evaluated to
study the natural convection heating effect on vertical
and horizontal can position during sterilization of milk.
Grashof number for the milk at initial period of thermal
Grashof and Rayleigh numbers indicate that the natural
convection flow in this simulation is laminar. Similarly,
reduced to 1.5 x 10° at the end of the processing,
reduced to 2.65 x 10°.
Profiles of Grashof and Rayleigh numbers for
vertical and horizontal were shown in Figs. 8 and 9,
respectively. Grashof number is mainly depend on
fluid viscosity and as in this process, milk viscosity
was extremely low (0.0004 Pas and 0.000353 Pas at
horizontal (2.8 x 108) one at 60 s of processing time.
positioning of can, respectively. Therefore, it can be
concluded that higher value of Grashof and Rayleigh
numbers indicated the higher temperature difference
during processing of vertical can positioning than the
horizontal positioning.
4.5 Evaluation of F-value
The effectiveness of a heating process can be
estimated by the F-values (Eq. (6)). The process value
F (min) can be used for quantifying the survival of
microorganism. An effect of time and processing
conditions (vertical and horizontal) on F-value is
shown in Fig. 10. Higher F-value was obtained for
horizontal can processing as compared to the vertical
processing (Fig. 10), which clearly depicts
effectiveness of horizontal processing. Highest F-value,
Vertical can radial position trm)
Vertical can radial position (m)
Vertical can radial position (m)
Temperature profile during sterilization (121 °C) of milk can for vertical and horizontal positioning along three lines (a
line, (b) central line and (c) top line.
Horizontal can radial position (m)
Horizontal can radial position {m)
-0.04 0.02 0 0.02 0.04
Horizontal can radial position (m)
0^′痘)′′〉二二'戛′_熹eine
标技|
e口
developed and validated with the experimental was found to be suitable for the sterilization process
tassutetmhents, Further, this study was extended
to with four sides heating of cap. SHZ was found at the
Computational Fluid Dynamics Simulations
requires less processing time as compared to the
vertical position. Further, progress of sterilization was
evaluated using F-values for both horizontal and
vertical position processes which underlines
superiority of horizontal can processing. Maximum
F-value for horizontal and vertical position of can was
obtained at 600 s and 660 s, respectively. Predicted
were also higher for vertical positioning of can.
Acknowledgments
Authors wish to thank Prof. Ram Rajasekharan,
Director, CSIR-CFTRYI, for his help and support.
