踏平坎坷  不辍探索——美将再次发射火星车
由于运行位置的原因,人类发射火星探测器要“相机行事”。适时发射可以使探测器在飞往火星时既省时,又省力。这样的机会一般每两年多才出现一次。为了加紧探索火星,美国几年前设立了火星勘测

火星表面 火星探测器 轨道器 着陆器 火箭发射 勘测 火星探路者 漫游 探索 科学家  

INTRODUCTION
Micro-electro mechanical system based iner-
tial system (MEMS INS) using MEMS inertial
sensors inherits the outstanding features of the
conventional INS, i.e. ,small size, light weight,
low power, long life cycle, high reliability, and
affordable cost. Unfortunately, due to the imma-
turity of current manufacturing techniques of sen-
sor, the unexpected fast error propagation pre-
vents MEMS INS from being one of comfortably
autonomous navigation systems with long term
accuracy’. The coupling of global navigation
satellite system (GNSS) and INS overcomes each
of their limitations[ 。 Wireless fidelity 《 WiFi)
has been gradually employed by vehicle positio-
ning technologies’. Far beyond an auxiliary po-
sitioning source, WiFi is herein used to improve
the integrity of MEMS INS/GNSS integrated sys-
tem when the vehicle travels in urban canyon en-
vironment with severe multipath.
Foundation item: Supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (61173076).
Received date: 2012-12-19; revision received date; 2013-02-23
Corresponding author: Liu Hua, Lecturer, -mail;sogoliu(G@8163. com,
1 FEDERATED KALMAN FILTER
IN WIFI/MEMS INS/GNSS IN-
TEGRATED SYSTEM
1.1 Overview
A WiFi pair consists of an access point(AP)
and a signal receiver, neither of which is exclusive
to the other. WiFi presents positioning capability
indirectly by means of its AP media access control
(MAC) address information rather than the time
of arrival (TOA) technique which is typically
used in the cell phone positioning, Its receiver
module is able to distinguish the signal quality
based on the received signal strength indicator
(RSSI), a measurement of the power present.
The geodetic coordinates of AP and RSSI of wire-
less signal are generally broadcasted by its radio
signal. The accuracy of WiFi positioning is a-
round 30 m in circular error probability (CEP),
The WiFi signal centers at 2. 4 GHz without in-
terference with GNSS signals and its strength
ranges from — 50 dBm to 一 90 dBm which is
much stronger than GNSS signals. Although the
WiFi signal is discontinuously available, approxi-
mately 30% in an urban with well established in-
frastructure[la it can be used in the integrity mo-
nitoring and improvement for the GNSS and INS
coupled system thanks to its stronger signal com-
pared with that of GNSS,
1.2 Federated Kalman filter in integrated system
Kalman filter is one of the most effective es-
timation techniques to INS/GNSS integration.
The extended Kalman filter (EKF) is a sequential
recursive algorithm which can be divided into two
loops, prediction loop and update loop. Federated
tainty P,(k) of whole system can be written as
where 真 , (K) and 熏2〈晟) are the estimates of sub-
systems at the kth epoch, respectively, P (k) and
P,(%k) the uncertainty of 炳 (K)〉 and X, (Rk), re-
spectively. For the local filter 2, its fusion error
from EKF is determined by both INS error and
observed WiFi signal quality which is associated
to RSSIL
1.3 System dynamic equation
The error of navigation system X is selected
as the state to be estimated and its dynamic equa-
tion can be written as
where @,,,,; refers to the INS transition matrix
Kalman filter (FKF) is typically considered as a
mathematical transformation of EKFST,
FKF allocates measurements from different
sources into different local filters. The local fil-
ters run independently to isolate any subsystem
failure, whose scheme enhances the system relia-
bility. Local filters work in parallel and the mas-
ter filter finally combines the outputs.
As far INS/GNSS with WiFi aiding as con-
cerned, the system scheme based on FKF is dia-
grammed in Fig. 1. The EKF algorithm is used in
each local filter.
determined by the INS basic mechanization equa-
tion[J ,Wy: the system response to the driving
white noise during the interval from R to 2 +1
with an assumption of zero-mean and Gaussian
distribution. Either local filter described in Fig. 1
uses a 15-state vector consisting of errors as fol-
lows
X,=X,=[0Py 8Ps Pu dV: _6Vs 6GVu
SA, SA, 0A. gb. gb, gb. ab, ab, ab.]"
4)
where [Pr _8Pvu “_8Pu J" refers to the posi-
tioning error in the east-north-up (ENU) frame,
the east definition coincides with the direction of
the Earth auto-rotation; [SVg 6Vu 6Vu | refers
to velocity error in ENU frame; [SA,。6A. 8A.]T
refers to the pitch, roll and heading angle errors,
respectively, via a definition of positive heading
from north to east; (gb. gb, gb.]" refers to the
stochastic part biases of gyros along three axes of
the body frame defined as right-forward-vertical,
and each axis bias is described by a first-order
Gauss-Markov model; [a5: ab, ab, ] is similar
to that of gyros and refers to stochastic part bias
of accelerometers in the body.
1.4 Measurement equation
The system measurement equation is de-
scribed as follows
where Z,., is the system measurement with a
measurement noise of Ru+yl , 玟 the design matrix
connecting 乙 and X,
For the local filter 1, the position and veloci-
ty differences between INS and GNSS are consid-
ered as the subsystem measurements. Therefore,
Z,.,.1 can be given as
Zi i+ = [Zp.enu Zy env 1° =
Hn, [S8Ps 8Ps Py 8Ve“8Va 8Vu 17
(6)
The design matrix H is given as
For the local filter 2, horizontal position er-
rors between WiFi and INS are considered as the
subsystem measurements. Suppose that total of
m WiFi APs are received at the (C& 十 1)th epoch,
so Z,.,+1 can be given as the following vector
Zyoin 二 【二z] ere z, 1" =H; 11 [(0Pe SPx 11
(8)
1s given as
2 INTEGRITY OF INTEGRATION
SYSTEM
2.1 Integrity of system
Integrity of a navigation system includes the
ability to provide warnings when its result pro-
vides misleading data that can potentially create
}`laz…[]`′(二lS〔蓦蔓〕. In an obstructed environment, such as
the dense urban canyon, the GNSS navigation ac-
curacy degrades dramatically due to severe mul-
tipath,which results in the risk of misleading po-
sition and velocity information from the integrat-
ed system. Furthermore, the error of inertial
sensors presented in Eq. (3) as part of estimates
is scheduled to be feed backed and compensated.
Meanwhile, the sensor outputs would be over ad-
justed once the system loses its integrity, which
would eventually navigate in misleading attitude
information as well.
2.2 Criterion of integrity monitoring by WiFi
It is normal that there exist large changes of
position error, velocity error and attitude error at
any two adjacent epochs. However, theoretical-
ly, the sensor error is supposed to change slowly.
As long as the system satisfies the requirement of
integrity,the difference of estimated inertial sen-
sor errors between two local filters shown in Fig.
1 should be close to each other, The criterion of
integrity monitoring can be thence set up as
where ￡ is any given positive real number, m the
mth column elements in X; or 友 , and m=10,11,
,15 corresponding to the gyro bias errors and
accelerometer errors in the state,respectively,7
can be determined by the Gaussian Function er f
in mathematics,Cov( 益 ,,, ) coming from the local
filter 2 is actually the sensor error deviation apart
from the estimate to the true value. Meanwhile,
X... from the local filter 1 should be infinitely
close to 真 ,,,from the local filter 2 if both GNSS
and WiFi are error-free. Taking X,., as an ap-
proximate reference value, the probability of Xi.
locating outside the confidence interval of
[光,一_叠7〔二O\/〈{黄(′2,r,`)77】玄2`′′`-哥-′7′〔二O〉、′〈夕【2.′′')]isdeno-
ted by (1—erf(y)). Here 7 is selected as 6 to
cover a typical value of mean time between failure
(MTBF) about 5 000 h for the whole life of sys-
tem. 1 —erf(p=6) approximately: gives a proba-
bility of 150 million which indicates that an in-
tegrity alarm will never happen as long as the lo-
cal filter 1 operates without deficiencies, always
with reasonable measurement updates.
Finally, Eq. (10) can be re-written and normal-
ized to define an integrity coefficient 8 as follows
where E( * ) is the operator of mathematical ex-
pectation. Obviously, the system integrity will
be broken when p> 1. In the scenario of severe
multipath, the integrity coefficient Bis introduced
to trigger rejections of the estimates from the
MEMS INS/GNSS filter.
3 RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
The integrated system of MEMS INS/GNSS
with WiFi aiding is conducted for a field test, The
calibrated gyroscope and accelerometer bias insta-
bilities are about 70 (“)/h and 25 mg, respective-
ly. To evaluate the system performance with the
difference between filters indicates the misleading
navigation data in the local filter 1. That is to
say, the MEMS INS/GNSS integrated system
probably does not possess integrity over some pe-
riods. To further detect the system integrity, the
coefficient 8 should be calculated. Fig. 3 shows
proposed algorithm, a high grade INS built with
laser optical gyros is operated at the same time as
a reference system.
In order to verity the effectiveness of the in-
tegrity algorithm, a GNSS heavy degradation
over 30 s is simulated offline to enlarge the actual
multipath scenario from an average level to a se-
vere level. The GNSS navigation data are added
noise with a distribution of 30 m 3-30 m(les) and
0.5 mys 土 2 m/s(ls) on the positioning and ve-
locity, respectively.
Fig. 2 compares the sensor error estimates
from two local filters. It is obvious that the cor-
responding values have a big difference when
GNSS navigation becomes worse dramatically due
to the severe multipath.
43 min 42 s 十 100 s, 6 h 43 min 42 s 十 125 s ]
Therefore, the feedback of navigation error esti-
mates and sensor error estimates should be rejec-
ted at the corresponding periods to keep the sys-
tem integrity,
Fig. 4 shows horizontal positioning results
with a comparison of with/without WiFi aiding
rithms with/without WiFi
integrity algorithm. The results show that the
performance of MEMS INS/GNSS system is im-
proved by use of the proposed integrity algo-
rithm , in terms of maximum error reduction from
26.25 m to 8.64 m, i.e、,67 % improvement,
4 CONCLUSION
For land vehicle navigation in the urban can-
yon with severe multipath environment, an integ-
rity improvement algorithm for MEMS INS/
GNSS integrated system with WiFi aiding is pro-
posed. The FKF based system is designed and
implemented following the creation of integrity
detection criterion. The field test shows that the
system integrity can be improved through rejec-
ting unreliable inertial sensor compensations.
The maximum positioning error is reduced by
67%.
