软件配置管理的标准化问题探讨
结合对国内外有关标准的研究和实践经验的总结 ,系统地阐述了软件配置管理的有关概念 ,详细地描述了软件配置管理的四大子过程 ,即配置标识、更改控制、状态纪实、配置鉴定各项活动 ,明确了这些活动应达到的目标。

软件工程 配置管理 标准化  

Heteroclinic and homoclinic connections are of
special interest for space mission applications, such as
low energy orbits to the Moon [1] and the Petit Grand
Tour to the moons of Jupiter [2]. We know that in the
Earth-Moon system [3] a spacecraft in orbit near the
triangular points L4 and L5 can migrate back and
forth between these points through the collinear point
L3 without encountering the Moon. Similarly, a
spacecraft in the Sun-Earth system can exhibit this
motion, which has recently been observed in asteroids.
The first Earth Trojan asteroid [4] (2010 TK7) was
discovered in 2010 by the WISE (wide infrared survey
Corresponding author: Pedro J. Llanos, Marie Curie senior
spacecraft) spacecraft. This ECA (Earth co-orbital
asteroid) is in a 1:1 mean motion resonance with the
Earth, that is, it goes around the Sun in the same
amount of time as the Earth. Asteroid 2010 TK7 has
an approximately 390-year cycle. Currently, this
asteroid orbits in tadpole-shaped loops around L4.
These loops are large, reaching as close as 2,000,000
km from Earth (about 50 times the distance from the
Earth to the Moon) and nearly as far as the opposite
side of the Sun from the Earth. Eventually, the motion
of 2010 TK7 will reverse direction and come back to
its current position. Irregular motion of this type of
orbit will be analyzed in some examples in this paper.
But there are many more asteroids following a
horseshoe orbit motion, such as asteroids 2003 YN107
and 2010 SO16. These asteroids are in 1:1 resonance
with the Earth because they share Earth’s orbit. So,
河 end Quasi Satelite Orbits for Setar Opsorvariame Triangular Points
when they are in front of the Earth, they are slowed
down and they are accelerated when they are behind
the Earth.
2. Motivation
In previous papers [5, 6], we investigated possible
transfer trajectories and orbits around the triangular
points (Trojan orbits) that are coplanar with the
ecliptic plane. We also analyzed [7] other orbits
(above or below the ecliptic) that are displaced from
L5,called“sub-L5 orbits” (Fig. 1h) that are more
attractive from a science perspective because a
spacecraft in any of these orbits could anticipate space
(e) asymmetric Trojan orbit around LS; (f) Trojan orbit around LS spiraling in and out of LS vicinity; (g) three-dimensional
differentially corrected Trojan orbit around LS; (h) integrated
weather up to 7 days earlier than its arrival at Earth.
day advance warning at the Earth. Some of these
orbits are the planar Trojan orbits illustrated in Fig. la
and the three-dimensional Trojan orbit displayed in
Fig. 1g.
Other planar elliptical Trojan orbits were found
around L5 as shown in Fig. 1b. These orbits can be as
large as 370,000 km and as small as 30,000 km in
amplitude. Finally, asymmetric orbits [7] were
differentially corrected with amplitudes of about
120,000 km and 150,000 km (Figs. le and 1f),
respectively.
sub-LS5 Trojan orbits,
Although some of these orbits are very promising in
studying solar events, there are other orbits where the
spacecraft does not need to be strictly off the ecliptic
plane, requiring less AV and therefore yielding a lower
mission cost. This paper will address some of these
orbits in the ecliptic plane as shown in Fig. 2a,
potential powered heteroclinic connections between
the triangular points, and powered heteroclinic
connections between the triangular points and the
collinear point L3 in the Sun-Earth system.
Besides the tadpole Trojan (Figs. 1c and 1d) and
horseshoe motion [7], we could place a satellite into a
retrograde QS (quasi-satellite) motion as shown by
some of the orbits displayed in Fig. 2a.
resonance of the planet and remains close to the planet
during the quasi-satellite phase. The QS orbit (green)
is a simulated differentially corrected [8] trajectory
depicted in Fig. 2a with an amplitude of 4, = 2 4, =
0.85 AU as seen in the rotating frame from the Earth.
In Fig. 2b, we exhibit a schematic of a quasi-satellite
orbit recommended by the scientists [9] as an
attractive option for both an operational space weather
Perspective and a research perspective. Similar to the
sub-L5 orbits [7], which can anticipate space weather
up to a week in advance of the Earth, which is sooner
than reception in a Trojan orbit around L5,these
quasi-satellite orbits (sub-L1 orbits) can also
anticipate space weather earlier than other orbits
around 工 1.
Some of these orbits are placed closer to the Sun
than other orbits located around the collinear point L1.
These closer orbits will provide advance warning of
solar events and CMEs (Coronal Mass Ejections)
coming toward the Earth. In the rotating coordinate
system, a spacecraft located in a quasi-satellite orbit
appears to orbit (oval shape) the Earth (Fig. 2a), but it
is actually orbiting in a heliocentric orbit around the
Sun as seen in inertial coordinates. This quasi-satellite
orbit (sometimes called a retrograde orbit) is relatively
close to the Earth-Sun line. A constellation of satellites
as seen in the corotating frame. The green orbit is a
simulated quasi-satellite orbit; (b) artist’s conception of a
QSO (quasi-satellite orbit) around the Earth.
can be arranged so that at least one spacecraft will be
closer to the Sun than the Earth while providing
continuous transmission of solar conditions. This orbit
geometry will help to anticipate space weather, which
generates geomagnetic storms and other interplanetary
disturbances that can disrupt communications in our
infrastructures on Earth and endanger future human
space flights.
3. Model and Methodology
We used the CRTBP (circular restricted three-body
problem) in the trajectory analysis for this study [10].
The Sun is the primary body, the Earth is the
secondary body and the spacecraft is the third body or
infinitesimal mass in this system. To simplify the
河 nd Quasi Satelite Orbis for Sora Ohsoreatieme Triangular Points
analysis, we used the normalized and
non-dimensionalized convention so that the mass of
the secondary body is 0 < x < 1 and the mass of the
primary body is 1 - u. The distance between the
primary and secondary bodies is normalized to 1 with
the primary body located on the x-axis at -u and the
secondary body at 1 - yu. The x-axis is directed from
the primary body to the secondary body. The y-axis is
90° from the x-axis in the primary plane of motion.
Finally, the z-axis completes the right-handed system,
defining the out-of-plane direction. For this work, x =
3.040423389123456E-6 for the  Earth-Moon
barycenter model based on the combined mass of the
Earth and Moon, Mega. using JPL “_DE405
constants. Finally, time corresponds to the angle
between the x-axis of the rotating frame and the x-axis
of the inertial frame so that the period of the rotating
frame becomes 2a. Using this convention, the motion
of the infinitesimal mass in the rotating frame can be
described by the governing equations of motion:
h叉
and r; is the distance from the spacecraft to the Earth,
and
where M; denotes the mass of the Sun. The CRTBP is
nondimensionalized so that the sum of the primary . and LS orbits are weakly unstable, their invariant
and secondary masses, the mean motion of the
rotating frame, the distance between the primary and
secondary, and the gravitational constant are all unity.
In the last section of this work, we will analyze other
orbit geometries using low thrust. For this, we use
similar two-body equations of motion in polar
coordinates [11] described below:
where r is the spacecraft’s distance from the central
body (in this case Earth), 6 is the true anomaly
(angular distance) of the spacecraft’s position in the
orbit, yg, is the mass parameter of the Earth, m is the
varying mass of the spacecraft due to the T (thrust),
which is assumed to be in the tangential direction, 20
is the gravity at Earth and I, is the specific impulse.
The mass variation is governed by:
历二-二(3)
8ol,
4. Results
In this section, we provide the results for the
powered heteroclinic and homoclinic connections
between the triangular points and the collinear point
L3 in the Sun-Earth system. Then, we will show the
results for the quasi-satellite orbits as potential orbits
for solar observations. Finally, some other orbit
geometries are delivered. Fig. 3 illustrates the
manifolds from the triangular points in the Sun-Earth
system for a given Trojan orbit of amplitude 0.52 AU.
When generating manifolds that depart from or arrive
to the halo orbits around the unstable collinear points,
an offset of 200 km from the orbit works very well to
generate these manifolds. However, this offset does
not yield any realistic manifolds around the stable
triangular points due in part with the stability
properties [10] associated with the Trojan orbits
around LS. Therefore, we used different offsets
yielding the manifolds depicted in Fig. 3. Because L4
manifolds take thousands years to reach from L4 to
L5. Our investigation of some of these manifolds
suggests that we cannot use these invariant manifolds
or ultra-low-energy trajectories for a space mission.
Our analysis suggests that unlike halo orbits, the
invariant manifolds of Earth Trojan orbits are
Stable Manifolds (10 years) from Earth,d _=3E6 km
with an offset of 1 x 10° km.
unsuitable for transfers from the Earth. Therefore, the
results shown in this paper provide an insight on how
to transfer from one triangular point to the other using
powered flight (47) as a way to speed up the transfer
time,
3. L5-L4 and L4-LS Heteroclinic Connections
Fig. 4 exhibits a long powered heteroclinic
connection between L4-L5 and Fig. 5a shows a L5-L4
heteroclinic connection. The long L4-L5 transfer takes
1,685.6 days and requires an injection 4V of 897.4 m/s
to depart from the Trojan orbit (amplitude of 0.73
AU) around L4 and a 4V of 867.8 m/s to insert into
the Trojan orbit (0.73 AU amplitude) around L5. The
tick marks in Figs. 4 and 5a are separated by 30 days
and 60 days, respectively. In the heteroclinic
connection shown in Fig. 5a, the departing 4V from
LS is about 1.860 km/s while the insertion 4V required
into L4 is about 1.697 km/s.
Fig. 5b displays a short L4-L5 powered heteroclinic
connection with a time of flight of 596.6 days. The
spacecraft departs from the same Trojan orbit around
L4 as in the previous case, but it requires a larger
injection burn of 2,426.7 m/s and it arrives at a Trojan
orbit around LS, where it needs an insertion burn of
2,366.7 m/s. The tick marks depicted in Fig. 5b are
separated by 30 days.
Heteroclinic Connection L4-L5 Sun-Earth
Fig. 4 Long powered heteroclinic connections between the
triangular points L4 and LS in the Sun-Earth system. Every
loop or bounce is one Earth year-long. The time of flight of
this heteroclinic connection is 1,685.59 days. The spacecraft
requires 897.4 m/s to depart from a Trojan orbit (0.72 AU)
around L4 and arrives at a Trojan orbit (0.72 AU) around
LS, requiring 867.8 m/s at insertion.
This trajectory loops around the Earth,having the
possibility of connecting to a quasi-satellite orbit at the
intersection points of the heteroclinic transfer orbit and
the quasi-satellite orbit (green oval orbit) from Fig. 2a.
powered heteroclinic connections of 243.4 days and
460.9 days, respectively.
Although the transfer time of the trajectories as
shown in Figs. 5 and 6 is very short, the total 4
required for both heteroclinic transfers are about 12
km/s and 13 km/s, respectively.
6. LS-L3 Heteroclinic and Homoclinic
Connections
In Fig. 7a, we show a homoclinic connection where
the satellite departs from an asymmetric orbit with a
342 m/s injection burn and a time of flight of about 14
years. Then it stays for about 2 years before returning
counterclockwise towards the same vicinity of the
asymmetric orbit. The time of flight of the return
trajectory is 8 years. Although not shown here, the
spacecraft would need an insertion burn at the return
to the asymmetric orbit.
Heteroclinic Connection L5-L4 Sun-Earth
of 1,583.14 days. The transfer orbit is clockwise and outside
the path of the Earth around the Sun; (b) short heteroclinic
connection between the triangular points L4 and LS in the
Sun-Earth system. The satellite loops around the Earth
before heading towards the Trojan orbit around LS. The
time of flight is 596.62 days. The spacecraft needs 2.426
km/s when departing L4 and 2.367 km/s at insertion into
the Trojan orbit around LS.
the spacecraft can orbit the vicinity of L3 for about 28
years and it does not need any deterministic
maneuvers to be captured around L3. However, the
satellite requires an injection burn at the sub-L5 orbit
of about 730 m/s for the red trajectory and 536 m/s for
the purple trajectory. After this time, the spacecraft
moves away from the vicinity of L3 clockwise
towards L4 for the trajectory in red and
counterclockwise for the trajectory in purple as shown
Short Heteroclinic Connection L4-L5 Sun-~Earth
the triangular points L4 and LS in the Sun-Earth system.
Every loop or bounce is one Earth year-long. (a) Shortest
heteroclinic connection with a time of flight of 243.42 days.
The spacecraft requires 6.083 km/s to depart from a Trojan
orbit (0.72 AU) around L4 and arrives at a Trojan orbit
(0.72 AU) around LS, requiring 6.088 km/s at insertion; (b)
heteroclinic connection from L4 to LS of 460.93 days which
requires 6.591 km/s and 6.424 km/s to depart L4 and insert
into LS, respectively.
in Fig. 8 (amplified section of Fig. 7b and Fig. 7c).
Similarly, the powered heteroclinic connection
displayed in Fig. 7c illustrates a satellite leaving L5
with a required burn of only 299 m/s, arriving 11
years later in the vicinity of L3 with a stay time of
about 6 years. After this time, the satellite follows a
counterclockwise motion around the Sun towards L4.
Other quasi-periodic orbits were also analyzed
around L3 with amplitudes large enough (0.1 AU or
larger as seen in Fig. 7) so that a spacecraft will be
able to communicate directly [12] with Earth and
without being occulted by the Sun. An amplified
section of the orbits around L3 is illustrated in Fig. 8.
Although these orbits do not require an insertion burn
into the L3 orbits in the CRTBP, the spacecraft may
need minor station-keeping maneuvers when using a
high fidelity ephemeris model.
A spacecraft in one of these orbits will obtain
observations of CMEs coming from behind the Sun
(as seen from the Earth) that can not yet be seen by a
spacecraft at L1 and therefore will have the advantage
of earlier warnings when the CME or any other solar
event travels along the Parker spiral (magnetic field
sheet twisted when the Sun rotates) within the
corotating zone.
7. Quasi-Satellite Orbits
Perhaps one of the most attractive orbits for solar
observations is the quasi-satellite orbit depicted in Fig.
9a. The satellite departs from a 200 km parking orbit
around the Earth with an injection burn of 3.613 km/s.
The transfer time to the insertion into the
quasi-satellite orbit (4, = 0.425 canonical units or
63,833,411 km and A, = 0.825 canonical units or
127,666,828 km) is about 245.8 days, requiring an
insertion AV of 3.07 km/s. Among all the trajectories
that were explored by varying slightly the velocity at
injection up to 1%, we found that our lowest AV
solution (not optimized) of 3.07 km/s corresponds to X
= 1.132231 AU and Y =-0.008929 AU as we illustrate
in Fig. 9b. A red star indicates the insertion burn into
the QSO. Other trajectories were also obtained for
shorter times of flight but at the expense of very high
insertion AVs, which may not be suitable for mission
design purposes for current propulsion systems. The
trajectories of the probe intersect the quasi-satellite
orbit at different points so each trajectory will also
have a different time of flight. In Fig. 9c, we display
AV-insertion into the QSO for a given transfer time.
The QSO was integrated over the time span of 20
years. Fig. 9c displays the AV insertion, in km/s, of
possible transfer integrated trajectories shown in
magenta in Fig. 9a.
LS and L3 in the Sun-Earth system of 6 years (red) and 7 years (purple); (c) long heteroclinic connection from LS to L3 of 11
years. A spacecraft placed around any of these orbits around the collinear point L3 will provide continuous monitoring of
solar conditions.
Orbits around Sun—Earth L3 for Solar Observations
Orbits around Sun—Earth L3 for Solar Observations
020 - ￡
Heteroclinic and Homoclinic Connections
Transfer Trajectories from 200-km to QSO
QSO; (b) transfer trajectory with a time of flight of 245.8
(magenta) shown in Fig. 9a.
The spacecraft is inserted into the quasi-satellite
orbit that has been numerically integrated over 20
years, showing very good stability properties for very
long periods of time. We also analyzed the invariant
manifolds from the quasi-satellite orbit. Given the
stability properties of this QSO, the orbits departing
(unstable manifolds) from the QSO or arriving (stable
manifolds) to the QSO have small orbit drifts of less
than 200,000 km when the perturbation from the QSO
is 1,000 km (standard perturbations are of the order of
200 km when computing the invariant manifolds
around the collinear points in the Sun-Earth system).
When considering very large perturbations of the
order of an Earth-Moon distance, these trajectories
obviously drift much more (Figs. 10a and 10b). The
integration over 5 years included 50 trajectories for
each manifold.
Another possibility for transferring to a
quasi-satellite orbit is via the powered heteroclinic
connection between the triangular points in the
Sun-Earth system as observed in Fig. 11. There are
four locations (indicated by red dots) where
deterministic maneuvers can be performed to transfer
the spacecraft from this heteroclinic connection into
the QSO.
In this particular case, the heteroclinic transfer
departs from the Trojan orbit around L4 towards L5 so
the insertion into the QSO would be such that the
spacecraft would have a direct motion. Another
scenario (not shown) would be an heteroclinic
connection departing from the Trojan orbit around L5
(and their corresponding transfer orbits [7, 10] from
Earth) so that the spacecraft would follow a retrograde
motion after insertion into the QSO.
is symmetric about the Sun-Earth direction. This
quasi-satellite orbit (magenta) can also be found
displaced (in the direction of L4) from the Sun-Earth
direction as illustrated in Fig. 12. In this case, the
spacecraft has a direct motion around the QSO. The
transfer trajectory started from a 200 km orbit with an
524 Heteroclinic and Homoclinic Connections
QSO Drifts of Stable Manifolds
perturbation; (b) unstable invariant manifolds. The black
orbit represents the QSO (quasi-satellite orbit).
Fig. 11 Locations (red dots) where possible maneuvers
can be performed to transfer the spacecraft between the
triangular points heteroclinic connection into a QSO in the
Sun-Earth system.
Fig. 12 Displaced QSO (purple) in the Sun-Earth system.
initial mass of 10,600 kg. The thrust is performed
during a time period of about 65 days consuming a
total of about 2,054 kg. This leaves a spacecraft wet
mass of 8,546 kg on arrival to the QSO, which
corresponds to a similar mass of the first Chinese
space station, Tiangong 1, of about 8,500 kg.
Similarly, orbits (not shown) displaced towards L5
can also be found with the spacecraft having a
retrograde motion around the QSO.
There seem to be other attractive orbits not only for
weather observations but also for searching for new
undiscovered asteroids that can be captured in some of
these displaced QSO, which may be either displaced
upstream or downstream the Sun-Earth line.
8. Conclusions
Trojan orbits and sub-L5 orbits were previously
found as potential locations for space weather
monitoring since they can anticipate weather up to one
week in advance before solar events actually arrive at
Earth. In this paper, we have investigated new orbit
geometries, such as powered heteroclinic and
homoclinic connections between the triangular points
and the collinear points in the Sun-Earth system.
Some of these trajectories are powered heteroclinic
connections linking L4 and LS for a total AV
(departure and arrival) of less than 1.8 km/s. This type
of trajectory loops around the Earth so material could
be transported not only between the triangular points
and Quasi-Satellite Orbits for Solar Observations
but also between these trajectories and the QSO
(quasi-satellite orbits) described in this work. Other
heteroclinic connections are also possible between the
Ls and the collinear point L3 in the Sun-Earth system.
The total AV required for some of these trajectories
can be as low as 299 m/s and as high as 730 m/s,
depending on the time of transfer and the size of the
initial orbit around L5. These orbits are very attractive
from the science perspective because a probe could
monitor space weather without interruptions once it
orbits the vicinity of L3 with amplitudes of about 0.01
AU (1,500,000 km) to 0.18 AU (27,000,000 km) and
therefore, could be used during the end of life of the
spacecraft. The spacecraft would not need any
deterministic maneuvers to be captured into the L3
vicinity because it will be captured without a
maneuver. The probe will stay in the vicinity of L3 for
many years before being ejected out of this
neighborhood either towards the L4 point (similar to
the motion of asteroid 2010 TK7) or back to the L5
vicinity again. These are examples of heteroclinic and
homoclinic connections that can be used in future
space missions for reconnaissance purposes where the
spacecraft will tour different libration points.
In this paper, we also investigated other orbit
geometries (QSO) as promising orbits where to place
a spacecraft for solar observations purposes. These
orbits are in 1:1 resonance with the motion of Earth
around the Sun from where several small spacecraft
will be able to provide continuous solar observations
from a sub-L1 perspective and be able to anticipate
space weather many hours or even one to two days in
advance of reception at a L1 position. Quasi-satellite
orbits can also be displaced either upstream or
downstream from the Sun-Earth line and therefore
could be tailored accordingly to the mission
requirements.
We are constantly intrigued by the different
families of orbits that we can find and we may be able
to find in the future. Besides the Trojans orbits around
LS, sub-L5 orbits, tadpole orbits, horseshoe orbits
described in past work, this work describes very
attractive powered heteroclinic and homoclinic
connections between the triangular points and
collinear points in the CRTBP of the Sun-Earth
system and quasi-satellite orbits for solar
observations.
Acknowledgments
The research was partially performed at the
Astronautical Engineering Department, the Viterbi
School of Engineering of the University of Southern
California. Part of this work described in this paper
was carried out during the Jet Propulsion Laboratory
SURP (Strategic University Research Partnership)
2010 Program, California Institute of Technology
under a contract with the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration. This work has been partially
supported by the Marie Curie fellowship
PITN-GA-2011-289240 Astronet-II.
