高硅氧纤维增强苯并噁嗪树脂复合材料的制备及性能
以苯并噁嗪为基体树脂,短切高硅氧纤维为增强材料,制备了一种模压用复合材料。研究了该树脂的热性能、固化动力学性能及力学性能。结果表明,苯并噁嗪增强高硅氧纤维混合物随固化温度升高工艺窗口未发生显著变化,利用Kissinger、Crane法得到固化反应活化能为69.619 kJ/mol,反应级数为0.95。复合材料拉伸强度为35.5 MPa,,压缩强度为196 MPa,线烧蚀率为0.14 mm /s.

苯并噁嗪 高硅氧纤维 热性能 动力学 力学性能  

0 Introduction
Polybenzoxazines (PBzs) is a relatively new class of
thermosetting addition-cure phenolic resins developed in
the recent 〉′(…霍直IrS[l_5]. These newly developed resins pos-
sess special features, such as near-zero shrinkage upon
curing, low water absorption, high char yield, no strong
acid catalysts required for curing,and release of no by-
products during curing'? . Benzoxazines( Bzs can be pre-
pared by the Mannich-like condensation of different types
of phenol, formaldehyde and an amine,either by emplo-
ying solution or solventless methods, so the molecular
structure of polybenzoxazines offers enormous design flexi-
bility, which allows the properties of the cured materials
to be tailored for a wide range of applications. They have
gained great interest because they have the capability to
exhibit the thermal and flame retardance properties with
mechanical performance and molecular design flexibility.
PBzs resins are widely used in various applications to the
needs of the high technology aerospace industry.
High silica glass fiber ( HSGF ) reinforced plastic
composite has comprehensively excellent properties, which
has been broadly used in aerospace, astronautic and
transportation fields in the past few years.As structure ma-
terial ,high silica glass fiber are commonly combined with
epoxy resin by molding process, the fibers impregnating
with resin and molding on the tools deviate greatly from
—699一
tems. amines catalyst or epoxy-amines catalyst decreased
significantly benzoxazine thermal curing temperature. The
flexural strength and flexural modulus of molding com-
pound of the system is 565 MPa and 22.7 GPa respective-
ly, and the glass transition temperature is 195.31 匕 ,
higher than that of common phenolic.
In the present works, the properties and processing
of high silica glass fiber reinforced PBzs resin composite
are studied, using differential scanning calorimetry
(DSC).
1 Materials and methods
1.1 Materials
High silica glass fiber is provided by Shaanxi HuaTe
glass fiber co., LTD, China; B,; is purchased from Si-
chuan University, the structure of the Bx。and PB, is
shown in Fig.1.All chemicals are used without further pur-
ification.
Fig.1 Preparation of polybenzoxazine from
typical benzoxazine monomer
1.2 Preparations of samples
for 2 h to reduce the moisture and cut into equal length of
30 mm. Certain amount of high silica glass fiber is added
into the system composed of Bz:. High silica glass fibers
are homogeneously blended with the B to the weight ratio
of 60/40. In order to achieve homogeneous dispersion of
the high silica glass fiber into Bg, the resulting mixtures
of HSGF and By are stirred for 24 h at room temperature
and dried for 1 h at 80 °C. In molding process, the mold,
measured 165 tmmx165 mm, is first coated with silicone.
High silica glass fiber weighing 60% of the composite are
filled in the mold and then cured at a higher temperature
between 200~220 °C for a fixed time.
一700—
min in nitrogen atmosphere and a sample mass of 5~6 mg
in aluminum pans is used. The blends are dried under
vacuum at 323 K for 1 h before DSC analysis.
1.4 Strength characterization
The mechanical properties of the composites are eval-
uated by using the state standard of the People’s Republic
of China ( GB) test procedure. The standard test speci-
mens are machined from the composite. Tensile strength
and compressive strength test are carried out on INSTRON
Testing Machine Model No.4505.
1.5 Microstructure analysis
The microstructures of the tensile specimens are ex-
amined by using scanning electron microscope ( SEM),
Japan model JSM 6460LV.
1.6 Ablation characterization
Ablation properties( GJB-323A-96) are tested by the
oxygen-acetylene ablation test, the test specimen size is
$30 mmx30 mm, ablative time is 20 s.
2 Results and discussions
2.1 Cure profile by DSC
2.1.1 B,, monomer and B_/ HSGF mixture
Thermal curing of the benzoxazine monomers forms
the corresponding polymer PB, with ring-opening of the
oxazine of the two monomers. The curing behavior of B,,
monomer in the present of HSGF is monitored by DSC.
The DSC curves of B,, and B,,/HSCF mixture. The DSC
thermogram of B,, monomer shows a typical sharp curing
exotherm with a peak (T,) located at 205 °C attributed to
the benzoxazine ring-opening polymerization, and with a
final cure temperature( 口 ) located at 250 °C. On the
other hand, the B,/ HSGF mixture show a curing exo-
therm with a peak (T,) located at 204 °C, and with a fi-
nal temperature ( T;) located at 250 °C. This could attrib-
ute to the non-catalytic effect of HSGF surface group on
the B,, monomer ring-opening reaction.
The enthalpy of reaction of B,, monomer and B /
HSGF mixture are 134.4 J/g and 110.7 J/g, respectively.
The cure behavior of B,,/HSGF mixture investigated
by DSC at different heating rate is shown in Fig.3. The
endotherm that corresponds to melting is observed at 98
°C. The initial curing temperature ( T;) , peak curing tem-
perature (T,) and final temperature ( 7 rise with the
increase of heating rate. The initial curing temperature at
154.9 史 , 161.9 化 , 167.7 C, 168.7 C indicates a con-
trollable curing window (CCW) of 77.9 “ 80.7 °C, ,81.
4 °C, 84.7 °C, respectively. The CCW implies the control
over processing. As the heating rate increases, the window
dont change significantly. This could be attributed to the
HSGF conductivity limiting the thermal effective transmis-
sion. From the results, the development tendency of the
CCW are different from other reported works'?). The cu-
ring characteristics of B ,/HSCF mixture are summarized
in Table 1.
The nonisothermal kinetics for the B,,/HSGF mixture
are investigated by the Kissinger and Crane method ,
Crane method!” *
Where J is heating rate; T, is peak curing temperature;
E is the activation energy ;n is reaction order; 尸 is the uni-
versal gas constant.
Table 1 DSC observations of B,,/HSGF mixture
10 161.9 212.5 242.6 80.7
15 167.7 216.8 249.1 814
As the multiple heating rate methods for non-isother-
mal analysis proposed by Kissinger and Crane can be used
as an alternative way of calculating the activation energy
without assuming any model of kinetic parameters, the
logarithm plots of heating rate versus the reciprocal of the
absolute peak temperature of B,,/HSCF mixture are given
in Fig.4 and Fig.5. Results show that a good linear rela-
tionship between the heating rate and the reversal of the
exothermic peak temperature can be obtained. The aver-
age activation energy values of B,,/ HSGF mixture are
calculated from the slopes of the plots. B,,/HSGF mixture
shows only one dominant curing kinetic process with the
average activation energy of 69.619 kJ/mol, reaction or-
der is 0.95, which mean fhat the reaction is complex. This
mechanism is the heterocyclic ring opening polymerization
of benzoxazine monomer since the oxazine ring is the reac-
tive site for curing of the benzoxazine.
The mechanical strength of B,,/HSGF composite
specimens are shown in Table 2. If the mechanical proper-
ties of B,./ HSGF composite are compared with a kind of
structural phenolic resin/HSGF system commonly used,
the compressive strength and ablation rate are in the same
level, tensile strength of B_/HSGF composite is better
than that of the phenolic resin/ HSGF composite.
Table 2 Mechanical and ablation properties of B,,/HSGF
and phenolic resin/HSGF composites
resin/ HSGF
B,/HSCF 35.5 196 0.14
The strength and mode of failure of a composite are
not only dependent on the properties of the fibers and ma-
trix, interfacial bond, and fiber volume, but also on the
fiber orientation". The prepreg of phenolic resin/HSGF
and B,,/HSGF employ same preparation technology, HS-
GF present disorder state,which mean fhat fiber show ran-
dom orientation in the matrix. The appearance of the
prepreg of B_/ HSGF is given in Fig.6. In the same pre-
paring condition, the different resin properties become the
key factor influencing composite mechanical properties.
fibers together and transmit load and stress, the interface
between matrix and fibers is the key factor influencing the
property of composite.The fracture surface of the B ,/HS-
GF composite and phenolic resin HSGF composite is ob-
served by SEM to analyze stress states from the SEM pic-
tures( Fig.7 , the fibers are evenly dispersed in the ma-
trix,the fibers and matrix break uniformly and the fracture
surface of the specimens are well arranged, which show
that the fibers and resin matrix can bear load together.
Compared to the existing phenolic resin HSGF, tensile
strength of the B,/HSGF is generally increased by
51.1%, compressive strength of the B,/HSGF is reduced
by 4.8%. As the toughness of phenolic resin/HSGF is not
very good, the stress loaded on the composite specimens
would induce cracks in the matrix as well as the interface
between fibers and resin. Cracks in the composite occur
primarily by interfacial failure with little crack-tip deform-
ation. The microstructure in Fig. 7 shows that the fibre
bundl, entangle or curl in the matrix, HSGF fibers are
pulled out on the fracture surface binding with very few
resin ,which show that the interface condition between HS-
GF fiber and phenolic resin is not very good.
(a) B,/HSCF (b) Phenolic resin/HSGF
Fig.7 SEM morphology of B,,/ HSGF and
phenolic resin/ HSGF composite
The ablation results of two kinds of composites are
listed in Table 2. the data in Table 2 shows that the abla-
tion rate of phenolic resin/HSGF and B,,/HSCF compos-
ites is 0.15 mm/s, 0.14 mm/s, respectively. anti-ablative
performances of B,,/HSCF composites are slightly better
than that of phenolic resin/ HSGF, the ablation morpholo-
gies of composites are plotted in Fig. 8. The ablation
process includes two stages, the first stage presents de-
composing the primary products such as benzene deriva-
tives, amines, phenolic comounds and Mannich base
