高超声速飞行器气动布局和轨道优化研究
提出了高超声速飞行器参数化模型，并在此基础上通过快速、高效的工程方法开展了初步的气动力计算。以类 HTV-2布局为对象，开展了以升阻比和容积率为设计目标的气动布局优化研究；以类 X-37布局为对象，开展了以航程和驻点总加热量为设计目标的弹道优化设计。采用加权求和的方法求解多目标优化问题。研究表明，通过优化可获得设计目标权重取不同值时的优化结果，各优化结果具有明显的不同，具体将哪一个优化结果作为最终的选择，主要依赖于设计者的需求。

气动布局 轨道 参数化外形 气动力 优化  

aerodynamics, aerothermodynamics and flight mission
design are the main test items. The hypersonic aerody-
namic characteristics are determined by the vehicle con-
figuration, and the capability of completing the flight
missions is determined by the design of flight trajectory.
In this paper, the parametric geometrical configura-
tions are proposed via conic cross section design method
and the “class function and shape function transforma-
tion technique” ( CST), and then the aerodynamic
characteristics are predicted by a rapid and effective
engineering method. The configuration is optimized to
satisfy both design goals of maximum lift-to-drag ratio
GUI Y W. Optimization of configuration and trajectory for hypersonic vehicles
maximum volume utility ratio simultaneously. The opti-
mization of flight trajectory design considering the inte-
gration of aerodynamics and aerothermodynamics is
investigated based on a given configuration.
Parametric geometry representation is the founda-
tion of optimization of hypersonic vehicle configuration,
and its goal is to describe a wide set of vehicle configura-
tions with a limited set of variables. In this paper, the
conic cross section design method and the “class function
and shape function transformation technique” ( CST)
are used to describe the aerodynamic configuration.
In the conic cross section design method, in order
to describe a conic whose start point and end point are
given, five independent conditions should be known.
Commonly ,the five conditions are the coordinates and
the slopes of start point and end point, and the conic shape
parameter. Various conic cross sections can be constructed
rapidly, conveniently, accurately and respectively
according to the various requirements of the vehicle
designer'?’ .
The “class function and shape function transforma-
tion technique” (CST) can describe a wide variety of
body cross section shapes by varying the exponents of
the class function. The very general cross-section shapes
can be generated by varying the shape function formula-
tions in addition to the class functions'??’ .
A variety of configurations of hypersonic vehicles
are proposed by using the two methods described previ-
ously. The configurations are shown in Fig. 1.
2 Optimization method
There are two kinds of optimization which are called
single-objective optimization and multi-objective optimi-
zation. For hypersonic vehicle optimization of configura-
tion and trajectory, the multi-objective optimization is
usually used instead of the traditional single-objective
optimization. In this paper, the multi-objective optimiza-
tion problem is solved by using the method of weighting.
Different objectives have different orders of magni-
tude, in order to have comparability between them, the
values of the objectives are divided by the initial value of
themselves respectively. Hence, the objective function
is described as below;
where J is the objective of optimization; w, and w, are
the weighting factors; F, and F, are the values of objec-
tive 1 and 2; (F,), and (F,), are the initial values of
objective 1 and 2 respectively.
multi-objective optimization of configuration and trajecto-
ry for hypersonic vehicles, and the detailed description
will be shown in part 4 and part 5.
3 Optimization of configuration
The hypersonic aerodynamic characteristics of
hypersonic vehicles are determined by the vehicle configu-
ration. For a given configuration, the hypersonic aerody-
namic characteristics are predicted by the rapid and
effective engineering method*"*!. Different methods are
to. the different configurations of vehi-
cle components. The Embedded Newtonian: theory is
used for the fuselage and Dablem Buck Empirical meth-
od is used for the other components. The Prandtl-meyer
expansion method is used for the leeward modification.
These methods have been in large number of hy-
`阙瞒亡」′二′吒藉`蠹涮""慵庸'I(量}二′`^二`′′叠赣"′二vestigationsandverifiadedbyBONE
wind tunnel experiments and CFD-zesults. "Fhe atottacy
of these methods is ateeptable in the stage of conceptual
design.
then lead to different chiatanteristios. The
purpose of the configuration optimization is to find the
proper values of variables which lead to the
aerodynamic characteristics.
In this part, the configuration optimization of HTV-
2 analog vehicle. §& vestigated as an example to illus-
objectives are selected to be the waitin lift-to-drag
ratio and the maximum volume utility ratio. Hence the
objective function ig;
utility ratio, and the subscript 0: tusimscthe initial value.
As shown in Fig. 2, the five désigs variables are
H, H,/H, x, and the two angles 8, and 0,, The con-
straint of the design variables is 8, 芸 习 、jn order to ana-
lyse the variables with ‘different orders of magnitude and
units, the variables are transformed te sure that
the ranges of them are [0,1]. The initial values of the
five design variables are H,=0. 3, (H,/H),=0, x, =
0.67, (8,),=0.5 and (8;),=0. The mach number of
this example is 7.0, and the angle of attack is 10..0.
In order to shaw the etfectiveness of the
tion, Table 1 shows the values of design variables, the
lift-to-drag zatie and the volume utility ratio of the opti-
mal configurations with different weighting factors, the
increase or decrease to the initial values 《 &A:rand A,)
are ajso shown in it. The of them are;
As shown in Table 1, the configuration that maxi-
mizes flie 技 -tw-ttsg 1atio conversely has the minimum
volume ufility ratio, and the one that maximizes the
volume ratio has the minimum lifi-to-drag ratio.
The intermédiate solutions have averaged values. The
bottom evoss of the optimal configuration with
different weighting factors are shown in Fig. 3. There are
obvious differences between the bottom cross sections,
which one would be chosen depends on the designer’ s
requirements,
Table 1 Lift-to-drag ratio and volume utility ratio of
 1不园梅源下的气勘布属钦化惹是
o 加 H H/H X 6 6 C/G, 血 V, A
Initial 6:3 0.0 0.67 0.5 00 39% - 038 -
1.0 06 00 00 00 00 00 4.5 13.6% 0.34 10.5%
0.65 0.35 0.26 0.0 00 0.0 0.0 419 58% 040 53%
04 06 1.0 1.0 00 00 00 2.41 39.1% 0.68 78.9%
00 1.0 10 1.0 0.25 0.0 0.5 2.17 45.2% 0.69 81.6%
In the simulation of the reentry trajectory, the aero-
dynamic data predicted by the engineering method is
used. For a given configuration, if the initial conditions
and the control strategy are given, the reentry trajectory
can be obtained by using the three degrees-of-freedom
(3-DoF) equations of motion. In the coordinate trans-
formation, the quaternion is used instead of the Euler
angle. Because the quaternion can avoid the problem of
the Euler angle which could make the equation of motion
singular in some special conditions.
The quaternion is defined as an expression that is
the sum of a real number and a vector. It uses one angle
and one space axis to describe a coordinate system
rotation, but the Euler angle method uses three coordi-
nate axes and three angles. The disadvantage of the
quaternion is that it is not intuitional enough. By using
the relationship between the quaternion and Euler angle,
we can transform one to another easily. Thus, the
quaternion is used in the coordinate transformation dur-
used to output to make the result intuitionaln41 ,
In order to solve the differential equations of
motion, a fourth order Runge-Kutta scheme is used in the
numerical integration. The rotation of the earth is consid-
ered in the simulation, and the earth ellipsoid model is
used.
The task of the optimization of trajectory is to obtain
the optimal control strategy which could lead to some op-
timal results that the designers want based on the given
configuration and initial conditions.
analog transporter is investigated as an example to illus-
trate the optimization of trajectory.
For X-37 analog transporter shown in Fig. 1 the
two objectives are the maximum range of the trajectory
and the minimum total heat load of the stagnation point.
Hence the objective function is:
where S is the range of the trajectory, Q is the total heat
load of the stagnation point and the subscript 0 means
the initial value.
For X-37 analog transporter, the speed braking
characteristic is very important. Huge amount of kinetic
energy and potential energy must be consumed to make
sure that the transporter can land on a conventional run-
way easily. Thus, the transporter must flight at a high
angle of attack in the range of low altitudel151 Hence,
the control strategy can be described as:
The design variables are the two mach numbers
Ma, and Ma, and ?, and a, are given in the calcula-
tion. The constraint of the two design variables is Ma, =
Ma, and the other constraint conditions are 9 不 0o and
@ 一 0,, where 4 is the dynamic pressure and 0 is the heat
flux of the stagnation point, ￠, and Q, are the maximum
value of them and they are given in the calculation.
In order to analyse the variables with different
orders of magnitude and units, the variables are trans-
formed to make sure that the ranges of them are [0,1].
The initial reentry altitude is 70km, and the flight path
angle is -1°.
Table 2 shows the values of design variables,the
range of the trajectory and the total heat load of the stag-
nation point of the optimal trajectories with different
weighting factors, the increase or decrease to the initial
values (A, and A, are also shown in it. The definitions
of them are:
As shown in Table 2 the trajectory that maximizes
the range have the maximum total heat load of the
stagnation point, and the one that minimizes the total
heat load of the stagnation point have the minimum
range. The intermediate solutions have averaged values.
The height, heat flux of the stagnation point and dynamic
pressure along the optimal trajectories with different
weighting factors are shown in Fig. 4 ~ Fig. 6. There are
obvious differences between each other, which trajectoy
would be chosen depends on designer’ s requirements.
Table 2 Range and total heat load of the stagnation point
of optimal trajectories with different weighting factors
￡2不同权重下的扬道优化结果
0, w, Me, Ma, Sym A (Km?) A
Initial 0 0 3.0393x10° - 1.1621 x10° -
0.5 0.5 0.03 0.004 3.0716x10° 1.06% 1.1675x10° 0.46%
0.7 0.3 0.73 0.003 3.1799xI05 4.63% 1.2374x10° 6.48%
0.8 0.2 1.0 03 3.2792x10° 7.89% 1.3219x10° 13.75%
图 5 驻点热流-航程曲线
Fig.6 Dynamic pressure along the trajectory
图 6 动压-航程曲线
5 Conclusions
Parametric geometrical configurations are proposed
via the conic cross section design method and the “class
function and shape function transformation technique”
(CST). The optimization of configuration and trajectory
are analyzed based on the proposed analog configurations.
The aerodynamic characteristics used in the optimi-
zation are predicted by the rapid and effective engineer-
ing method, and the simulation of trajectory is calculat-
ed by using the three degrees-of-freedom (3-DoF) equa-
tions of motion. The rotation of the earth is considered,
and the earth ellipsoid model is used in the simulation.
The optimal configurations and trajectories with different
weighting factors are obtained. There are obvious differ-
ences between the optimal results,which solution would
be chosen depends on the designer’s requirements. The
result can be used as one of the feasible schemes in the
future work. Also, the moment characteristics and stabil-
ity are very important in the research of hypersonic vehi-
cles, and should be concerned greatly in the future work.
