CE标志综述
概述了使用CE标志的意义 ,介绍了欧盟和CE标志的发展过程、CE标志与贸易技术壁垒的联系 ,重点对CE标志和CE标志指令的要求等内容作了阐述 ,并介绍了已被采用的CE标志指令。

CE标志 CE指令 贸易技术壁垒 认证 介绍 欧洲  

2 Approach dynamics model of carrier
aircraft
The dynamics model for landing of carrier air-
craft is not different from the land-based aircraft
when it flights along the ― 4°~ - 3° glide slope of-
fered by aided landing system. The 6 degree of free-
dom (DOF) dynamics model of the aircraft is given in
Eq.(U~Eq.(3)0
Vol. 11 No.6,Dec. 2013 19
the rotation inertias corresponded to x,y,z body ax-
is; , _, I, are the products of inertias; L, 2, 0 are
the speed components along the three ?x, y, 2 body ax-
is directions; p, g,r are the angular velocities of rota-
tion along the x, y, # body axis; X,Y, Z are the com-
tic diagram of simulation model.
of carrier aircraft
The landing success ratio is affected directly by
movement to the military thrust position while at the
minimum approach speed , .
20 ENGINEERING SCIENCES
3) Altitude correction criterion. Altitude correc-
tion requests illuminate the ability to correct the alti-
tude error of the aircraft. A 15 m altitude error must
be corrected in 5 s while using no more than one half
of the maximum normal acceleration capability.
while at Vi min “
5) Field-of-view criterion. The slowest acceptable
level flight and with the pilot「s eyes at the design eye
and well line up.
4 Determining the approach speed envelope
4.1 The limitations of field of view
The source of optical slope locates at 152 m for-
ward of the ramp, 19.8 m above the waterline. Ac-
152 m forword of the ramp
Fig.2 Approach field of view schematic diagram of
carrier aircraft
With reference to Fig.2, the angle between line
of vision and 4° glide slope is 0.8°. From the geome-
try relationship, the line of vision is determined by a.
Measured from the body x axis, the angle of the line
of vision is a+4.8°. When the maximum depression
angle 0. is determined, the maximum permissible at-
tack angle is a, =06. ―4.8°. The maximum depression
angle of carrier aircraft is 20°, and the maximum per-
missible attack angle is 15.2°. The speed of straight
and level flight can be got from Eq. (4).
where, m is mass of aircraft; g is the gravitational ac-
celeration; P is engine thrust; a is attack angle; ￠, is
engine setting angle; C, is lift coefficient; S is wing
area; p is atmospheric density.
For approach configuration of an aircraft, the
maximum lift coefficient is 2.04; weight of aircraft is
21 000 kg and wing area is 70 m’. The 15.2° is al-
ready over the critical attack angle. From Eq.(4), the
stall speed of the approach configuration is 41.5 m/s.
So it can meet the requirement of field-of-view criteri-
on as long as the aircraft is not in stall during ap-
proaching.
4.2 The limitations of engine response time on
approach speed
The wave off often occurs in landing. The bad
landing environment, flight technical error or beyond
the safety landing state may result in wave off. The ca-
pability of longitudinal acceleration is the key factor
for wave off of carrier aircraft. When carrier aircraft
is approaching at the minimum approach speed, it is
demanded that the level state of zero track angle and
longitudinal accelerative effect must be enough from
the accelerator action to the military thrust position;
the acceleration must be 1.5 m/s” at least in 2.5 s.
Fig.3 is the engine response sketch map. 7 is the
response time from trim thrust P to military thrust P,.
According to the approach dynamics model in section
2,the effect on the longitudinal accelerative perfor-
mance is given in different response time through ad-
justing z . Fig.4 shows that the engine response time
affects the approach speed distinctly and when
F<2.5_5, 175 kmyh<MV, <233 km/h or z=3 s,
175 kmyh< V,,<195 km/h ,the accelerative perfor-
mance satisfies the requirement. However, when
t>2.5 s,the maximum limit of V,, decreases quick-
ly; when f=3 s, the scope of the limitation is too
narrow. So the engine response time is not permitted
to exceed 2.5 s.
Fig.3 Engine response schematic diagram
Fig.4 The effect of engine response time on
longitudinal acceleration
4.3 The limitations of elevator efficiency and
deflection rate on approach speed
According to the altitude correction criteria, a
15 m altitude error must be corrected in 5 s while u-
sing no more than one half of the maximum normal
acceleration capability. Based on the approach dyna-
mics model, the altitude correct ability is verified
through the simulation with different elevator efficien-
cies and deflection rates. The AOA control law is ad-
opted to prevent the stall. Fig.5 presents the control
law model.
Fig.6 presents the simulation results of the alti-
tude correction based on different elevator efficien-
cies and deflection rates with no throttle changes.
Fig.6 shows that with the increase of the speed and
elevator efficiency, a 15 m altitude error can be cor-
rected in shorter time. The deflection rate has small
impact on the altitude correct capability except that
the speed is slower than 190 km/h. When the speed is
faster than 190 km/h, a 15 m altitude error can be cor-
rected in longer time due to a lower deflection rate
and control law. With the deflection rate increasing,
the aircraft does not have the altitude correction abili-
ty. Fig.6 also shows that if the approach speed is fas-
ter than 190 km/h, a 15 m altitude error can be cor-
rected in 5 s while using no more than one half of the
maximum normal acceleration capability; otherwise,
the altitude corrected capability can not satisfy the re-
Vol. 11 No.6,Dec. 2013 21
quirement of the specification.
approach speed
Thanks to the development of the modern con-
trol system, when the flying qualities of the uncon-
trolled aircraft, which can not satisfy the standards,
can be relaxed in aircraft design. The corresponding
items can be adjusted through the control system. If
the flight control systems fail, the handling quality
can be degraded. The carrier aircraft must land on the
carrier safely, even on the flight control system mal-
function. The aircraft responds need to meet the lan-
ding requirements to avoid the danger, which de-
mands the uncontrolled aircraft has good quality.
Fig.7~Fig.9 present the natural characteristics
calculation results of an aircraft. The figures show
that the short-period characteristics meet the require-
ments of the standards; the long-period characteris-
tics only satisfy the level 2 at low speeds. When the
speed increases, damping ratio enhances. From the re-
sults,the aircraft should improve the approach speed
to ensure the better quality characteristics when the
control system fails,
Fig.7 Long-period damping ratio of an aircraft
(approach configuration)
22 ENGINEERING SCIENCES
Fig.8 Short-period damping ratio of an aircraft
(approach configuration)
Fig.9 Control anticipant parameter (CAP) of an aircratft
(approach configuration)
4.5 Stall speed margin
Stall speed margin is a critical parameter used by
carrier aircraft designers in determining approach
speed. When the carrier- based propeller- driven air-
craft approaches straight- deck carriers using a“flat-
paddles” approach technique, the specifications spe-
cify the design approach speed to be 1.05~1.10 times
the stall speed. Subsequently, the jet aircraft indi-
cates that the minimum approach speed must be 1.1
times higher than the stall speed.
According to the requirements of the stall speed
margin, the approach speed of a carrier aircraft is
1.1 times higher than the power-on stall speed V,,.
The power-on stall speed is 168 km/h depending on
the aerodynamic characteristics of the carrier aircraft.
So the approach speed V,is higher than 185 km/h.
4.6 Other limitations
4.6.1 Gear load limitation
Due to the limitations of gear load and arrest sys-
tem, the landing speed is not too high. Ref. [5] presen-
tedthemaximum sinkingspeed calculation formula
where, V,, is the average engaging speed,
Vip = 1.05V, . Then we can get
From Eq. (6), we can get
.=387 km/h (7)
where,f,x is the maximum approach speed of the
landing gear load restrictions at which the deck mo-
tion is excluded.
Considering the moderate sea condition, the ad-
ditional sinking speed caused by the deck motion is
1.5 m/s; here V,,... is 200 km/h,
4.6.2 Arrest system limitation
For different landing weights, the engaging
speed is not higher than the limited speed. Table 1
presents the limited engaging speed of the arrest sys-
tem MK7-1, MK7-2 and MK7-3, where the aircraft
mass is 21 000 kg. Table 1 shows the limited enga-
ging speed of the MK7-3 is 252 km/h
Table 1 The limited engaging speed
Arrest system Limited engaging speed/(km+h?)
MK7-1 204
MK7-2 230
MK7-3 252
4.7 The determination of approach speed envelope
Table 2 presents the limitations of the approach
speed of a carrier aircraft. It shows that the maximum
approach speed is limited by the longitudinal accelera-
tion ability, landing gear load and the arrest system
capacity. Considering the moderate sea condition,
when the engine response time is 2.5 s, the maximum
approach speed is 200 km/h, which is restricted by
landing gear. The maximum approach speed is
230 km/h limited by the longitudinal acceleration
ability without considering the deck motion. The mini-
mum approach speed is limited by the field of view,
stall speed margin and altitude correction ability. The
minimum approach speed is 195 km/h, which is re-
stricted by altitude correction ability.
Considering moderate sea condition, the ap-
proach speed envelope of the aircraft is
195 knyh < u <200 km/h (8)
Without considering the deck motion,the approach
speed envelope of the aircraft is
195 km/h <Y,, <230 km/h ?
The sea condition has the important influence on
the approach speed envelope. The sea condition is
more wild, and approach envelope is narrow. The fly-
ing qualities limitations on the approach speed are not
Table 2 Limitations of the approach speed
of an carrier aircraft
Factors poe iotations Remark
Field of view V.>V,.=168 km/h No limitations
margin
r c Fi
Arrest system T, <252 km/h MK7-3
presented in Table 2, which are mainly reflected in
the control system failure. The requirements of the
flying qualities are different for different failure
states, and the approach restrictions are determined
based on the specific malfunctions.
5 Conclusions
The engine response time and the elevator effi-
ciency have important influence on the approach
speed envelope. With faster engine response, the
maximum approach speed is higher; with higher ele-
vator efficiency, the minimum approach is lower. A
series of restrictions of landing gear can be given ac-
cording to different sea conditions. The approach
speed envelope is narrow for an aircraft only conside-
ring the moderate sea condition. It is not practical
without considering the sea condition.
