争霸太空――冷战时期苏联航天计划探秘
欲拔头筹:抢先登月建立太空军事基地在人类航天史上,苏联是第一个将人造地球卫星送人太空的国家,也是第一个将人送入太空的国家。然而,令人大惑不解的是,在随后的首航月球的竞赛中,遥遥领先的苏联人不知是什么原因竟然停滞不前,以至于被后来居上的美国人赶上并反超。甚至于在1968年和1969年美国”阿波罗”计划取得非凡成功后,苏联竟否认它与美国进行过载人登月的竞赛。难道说苏联人真的不曾进行过登月的尝试吗最近,自一组刚刚解秘的有关苏联登月计划的档案中得知,苏联人一刻也未曾放松过与美国对首航月球的争夺。自苏联人成功地将加加林送上太空后,随后就制定了一个更加雄伟的计划,那就是一定要抢在美国的前面将宇航员送上月球。甚至于可能的话,还要在月球上建立一个军事基地。为此,苏联的工程师们曾制造了一个实实在在的登月航天器。他们对用于地球轨道飞行的”联盟号”飞船进行了改进,以便能带两个人进入月球轨道,然后再返回地球。改进后的飞船称为”L-1”号飞船。为了实现在月

苏联人 太空站 侦察卫星 战斗机 运载火箭 军事基地 反卫星 轨道飞行 美国人 航天器  

Currently, about 20-40% of total electricity
consumption is spent on artificial lighting [1, 2].
Lighting is an important and costly liability of heads of
cities. An inefficient lighting wastes financial
resources and creates unsafe conditions. The
technologies used in the pursuit of energy efficiency
and design can reduce lighting costs and these energy
savings can reduce the need for new power plants and
encourage capital to alternative energy solutions for
populations in remote areas [3].
A significant improvement in the lighting efficiency
can cause significant impacts on global energy
consumption. Unfortunately, none of the conventional
light sources (incandescent, halogen and fluorescent)
had significant improvement in the last 40 years [4].
The relatively recent developments of technologies
based on LED lighting are showing improvements year
after year, proving that they may have profound
impacts in the area of lighting. It is estimated that by
2020, the simple replacement of LED by traditional
light sources will provide a 50% decrease of the total
spend on electricity for lighting, and a decrease of 11%
of total electricity consumption [4].
LED-based lighting technologies, also known as
solid state semiconductor technology, may produce the
next generation of white light for illumination [1]. The
luminous efficacy of white LED recently surpassed
100 Im/W [5], achieving efficacy of 170 Im/W for a
prototype LED lamp of 7.3 W , which emits 1,250 Im
Due to the growing advances in research, the use of
so-called high-power LED solutions, previously
occupied by other light sources, is expanding [6].
Several factors contribute to this change,including
many advantages of LED light sources as compared to
conventional light sources. Among these benefits, it is
worth mentioning: long life, brightness, lower energy
Secondary Lens Optimization for LED Lamps 47
consumption, smaller size, faster response and
reliability [1, 5, 7].
When LED is being used for direct lighting, the
radiation patterns are of circular symmetry with
deformed irradiance intensity distribution, requiring
the use auxiliary optical elements in order to
redistribute the LED light and generate uniform
illumination over the target plane [7, 8].
Most studies focus on the design of integrated LED
lenses, i.e., primaries lenses that are usually made of
Epoxy and PMMA, implying in chip manufacturing
changes [9, 10]. The integrated lenses project, with
specifically designed formats (freeform lenses),has
been widely used as they have shown the least loss of
luminous efficacy [11, 12].
Some efforts have been detached to optimize the
LED primary lens. However, there is a need to study
the behavior of secondary LEDs lenses. In Ref. [8], the
authors propose a new design method for LED lens
with spherical inner surface and freeform outer surface
for imaging applications.
The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents
a methodology for optimizing the LED secondary lens,
i.e.. the external lens of the LED know as LED
secondary optic. The general proposal is to use a
heuristic optimization method (genetic algorithm) to
generate lens geometries, use a software to simulate the
distribution of illuminance on a target plane, and
develop an apparatus able to assist in validating the
results found; Section 3 presents results and
discussions; Section 4 gives conclusions.
2. Methodology
The methodology developed in this work is based on
(1) Using the Snell-Descartes Law, ray tracing
method;
(2) Definition of lens geometric parameter;
(3) Using software for simulation of light emission
from LED on the target plane;
(4) Using heuristic method to search optimized
parameters;
(5) Development of apparatus to assist in validating
the results found.
2.1 Ray Tracing
For the simulation of the geometry of the lenses, a
numerical technique based on Snell-Descartes Law
was used, known as ray tracing method, which
calculates individual propagation of light rays. The
simulation routine uses the stochastic method to
simulate light rays emitted by the LED all the way to
the target plane (Fig. 1). From this simulation, the
luminous flux distribution is extracted.
2.2 Lens Geometric Parameters
Fig. 2 illustrates the modelling of a spherical lens
and the confinement. Rl is the radius of the surface S1,
and 尸 is the radius of the surface S,, with eccentricity y
as illustrated in Fig. 2. Z, is the curvature of S), and Z,
is the curvature of S,. y is half diameter of the confinement,
1 21
Fig. 2 Lens and confinement geometry.
48 Secondary Lens Optimization for LED Lamps
and L is the distance between the source (LED) and the
confinement opening.
Also in Fig. 2, ￠ is the lens axial thickness and
defined mathematicaliy by the expression
where, Zl and Z, is given by
In Eq. (1), is the lens edge thickness. Note that
the value of t and #, grow uniformly if R, and R, are
fixed and ￠, > 0.
2.3 Simulation Software
Many common commercial simulation programs
such as CODE V, ZEMAX, LightTools, ASAP or
OSLO can simulate LED and run ray tracing with
millions of rays. The Zemax was chosen and used to
simulate the light rays emitted by LED to reach the
target plane. From this simulation, the illuminance is
extracted on the illuminated plane.
After setting the confinement parameters and the
source model via LED manufacturer data sheet. the
simulation starts generating randomly rays that
represent the light emitted by the source as illustrated
in Fig. 3.
2.4 Optimization Method
For the optimization process, a heuristic (genetic
algorithm) was adopted that aims to optimize the
secondary lens geometry in order to generate a uniform
illuminance on the target plane. GA modifies the lens
geometry and requests a new simulation from Zemax.
Zemax performs the ray tracing and returns to GA a
vector containing the illuminance distribution curve on
the target plane. GA, via an evaluation function,
compares the new results of the simulation [13]. This
process occurs to achieve a optimized geometry of the
LED lamp lens.
A possible solution of the problem, i.e., a GA gene is
defned as
x=[R Ry L Gr l Pra]
where, R; is the internal surface radius, R, is the
external surface radius, L is the distance between the
source (LED) and the confinement opening, and Gy,is
the added value to the lens total thickness. For example,
whenGr= 0,the lens edge thickness is 4.. When G;> 0,
the lens edge thickness takes the value f + Gy. fr) and
Pra refer to internal and external lens curvature that can
be positive or negative, such that fz; = +1 and Sr = 土 1,
i.e., if positive is convex curvature or if negative is
concave curvature.
Fig. 4 illustrates the distribution curve of the desired
illuminance Di (red curve) and the distribution curve of
the simulated illuminance Dg (blue curve), where
deviation between two curves is the evaluation
function fix).
Thus, a metric can be developed to measure the
fitness of each simulated individual (lens) of the GA,
given by the expression:
where, xis a value that prevents the division by zero. -
Fig. 4 Evaluation function.
Secondary Lens Optimization for LED Lamps 49
2.5 Apparatus Development
In order to validate the geometry of the lenses
found, an apparatus was developed to test the different
lenses and collect voltage, current and illuminance
values of the LED studied.
The apparatus comprises a confinement with radius r
= 35 mm attached to a heatsink which is fixed to a
cooler as shown in Fig. 5. A digital thermometer is
fxed on the top of confinement in direct contact with
LED base through a hole. Temperature monitoring is a
factor of extreme importance, since high temperatures
can damage LED and directly change the illuminance
values. During all experiments, the LED temperature
remains constant at 28.6 °C,
3. Results and Discussion
For initial studies, it is proposed an equation for
measuring the illuminance value of a LED using only
data-sheet, considering the confined LED.
whereby, @,, is the maximum luminous flux, 4 is the
surface area of the luxmeter semi-sphere to be
illuminated, 4 = 27°, I, is the LED nominal current, i
=1, 2, ..., n, where, n is the number of points of the
curve, r is the radius of the sphere which forms the
iuxmeter surface to be illuminated. Therefore, with the
current values of D and voltage 仑 ] Eq. (4) in hands it
becomes possible to estimate the value of the
illuminance E(/) on the surface of the luxmeter
semi-sphere.
In order to validate Eq. (4), the apparatus was used to
collect current, voltage and illuminance values. Fig. 6
shows the relationship between the voltage and the
illuminance by using the experimental apparatus and
theoretical illuminance using Eq. (4).
As for the proposed apparatus, the illuminance using
any type of lens can be plotted experimentally. The
idea of this study is to validate data obtained by
simulation through the stochastic method routine.
Fig. 5 Proposed apparatus.
experimental and theoretical illuminance.
Fig. 7 shows a lens fixed at confinement opening and
the luxmeter on target plane. Thus, using a lens, data
can be collected experimentally and compared with
simulated values.
Fig. 8 illustrates experimental and simulated
illuminance curves for a given lens model.
In the acquisition of the experimental curve, a target
plane was used at a distance of 820 mm from the source,
and a lens geometry with (1) flat inner surface (R; = co);
(2) external radius R = 24.17 mm. For the simulation,
a SW LED, YETDA W081F-5W model, , = 700 mA,
Q = 250 Im, V,, = 7 V, with Lambertian radiation
pattern, was used.
In Fig. 9, the luminous flux distributions related to
the studied lens are shown. Illustrations have been
obtained by stochastic simulation and through
photographs of the target plane.
50 Secondary Lens Optimization for LED Lamps
Fig. 7 Experimental data collection.
一 .Simulated 。
Fig. 8 Experimental and simulated illuminance curve.
(stochastic) illuminance curve.
By using a genetic algorithm, it is possible to find a
lens geometry capable of improving the distribution of
the illuminance on the target plane. Fig. 10 illustrates
the result ofthe optimization process ofthe illuminance
curve of a lens with optimized geometry.
Fig. 1ia is illustrated optimized lens. Fig. 11b shows
the distribution of the luminous flux on the target plane.
It is observed that there was an uniformization of the
luminous flux on the target plane.
Fig. 10 fix) for convex S;/concave 52 lens.
Fig. 11 Simulation data with fix) = 6.38: (a) Optimized
lens geometry; (b) Distribution of the luminous flux.
Parameters optimized values found for this other
case were: Ri = 35, R = 110,7=20, Gr=6, 人 1 = -1,
Pr: = -1 and evaluation function of fx) = 6.38. The
material of the lens is quartz with refractive index of
1.5442.
4. Conclusions
Practical tests using the proposed apparatus showed
that a lens fixed at confinement opening can change
luminous flux distribution on a target plane and this
results was validated by simulation. The developed
equation measures the value of illuminance, using only
the values found in the data-sheet and the current
applied to the LED. Finally, it was shown that the
optimization process proposed is feasible for
generating new secondary lenses geometries for LED
lamps, bringing uniform distribution ofthe illuminance
on the target plane.
