全球首架最大起飞重量242吨A330交付达美航空
当地时间5月28日，空中客车公司在法国向达美航空交付了其首架最大起飞重量242吨的空客A330―300飞机。这架飞机是空客公司最新版本的A330长程宽体机，比此前的版本续航能力更强，起飞重量更大。达美航空是242吨版A330的首家用户。空客公司称，有11家航空公司订购了242吨版本的A330飞机。

最大起飞重量 A330 航空公司 交付 空中客车公司 最新版本 续航能力 飞机  

THE MANAGEMENT OF STRESS IN STUDENTS 951
management within the BUAP (Autonomous University of Puebla).
Students reach the university context with a set of expectations, needs, and problems with very personal,
emotional, and even familial character. All these influence significantly in how they keep up with the demands
that are presented in this ambit.
Francisco and Maria (2003) and Tomas (2011) suggested that the factors that cause stress are not just
having to deal with so much work and a lot of demands,
but are four factors which are described as follows:
(1) New―Something that involves a new experience;
(2) Unpredictable 一 Something that arises unpredictably in our lives;
(3) No control―Sense of chaos, when we have no control over situations;
(4) Threat to personality 一 When they question our
personality.
A study by David (2013) showed that men were
three times more reactive to stress than women, and
women tend to suffer more depression compared to men. This author also mentioned that a hormone which is
secreted in the state of stress is cortisol, and to cause the opposite effect is oxytocin.
Stress -affects the health of individuals, and in the case of students, it not only affects their school
performance, but also their personality, family, and social life, including their physical health. Sometimes, it
can get to the involvement of various processes in the body that triggers certain diseases, such as cardiovascular,
digestive as gastritis, colitis, etc., and some can even lead to death as in the case of heart attacks.
Stress is a phenomenon which includes a wide variety of factors, being immersed also to the kind of
thoughts, attitudes, and beliefs that a subject has. That is, a student who has a pessimistic attitude about his/her
performance capabilities to conditions will have bad results in the same.
There are chances of stress in situations like the followings:
(1) In case of physical or mental exhaustion;
(2) Before a family disgrace;
(3) Facing a student failure or sentimental;
(4) In situations of economic or social crisis;
(5) As a result of an illness.
It should also make it clear that a subject may have some other anxiety disorders, anxiety, and even
depression that are not necessarily due to stress, some may be caused by other factors, both biological and
psychosocial as in the case of the latter, and events, such as the death of loved ones, loss, i.e., moments that are
called situational crises, which are unpredictable in a subject’s life.
Here are some very clear signs of a crisis of stress:
alternative moments of anxiety, aches and pains in the
stomach, undue stress, sadness for no apparent reason, and general physical decay (Barbara & Ana, 2013).
What Causes Stress in Student Population
In Figue 1, we can see some factors that cause stress to students at the age of 19 within the university.
The maximum stress is caused by the application
We can also see resulting zero stress of having to
make a team work, doing work, and having to interact
with teachers and peers.
Compared with Figures 1 and 2 with the same factors, but at the age of 26 in college students from the
Faculty of Computation, we see that the stress of students is higher at this age, having to submit a test is the
952 THE MANAGEMENT OF STRESS IN STUDENTS
maximum stress, and when to give a presentation and the other factors had a maximum in Figure 1, facing
competition with peers are still held only that in Figure 2, have increased factors that provocate stress, now
appear other parameters not previously appeared as:
THE MANAGEMENT OF STRESS IN STUDENTS 953
(4) Lack of time to meet the academic activities;
(5) When I cannot understand the contents within my classes.
We can see in Figure 1 that at the age of 19, students are not concerned about socializing with peers and
teachers and making teamwork, We can also see in Figure 2 that as a student’s age increases, the stress does too,
their level of socialization decreases, and responsibility
factors and competition increase in students producing
more stress in this population.
We can deduce that this change around stress and age is a function of the students begining to realize that
they will soon move to another of life, in which they will be inserted into the productive life of the
country, where opportunities are not for everyone but for those with more preparation. However, it is an
assumption and that the latter was not investigated in the questionnaire we used.
How to Manage Stress, Men and Women in the Field Students
In the next section, we will see how men and women handle stress, just give us the task of showing the
Figures that caused more stress in the student sector.
Figure 3 shows a 71% stress in women versus 100% in men by the concept of making teamwork, but this
figure is at the students’ background of age 26, which are not visible when the students were 19 years old, this
may be due to women are more sociable than men and know how to handle most social relations within their
environment.
stress in women and 100% stress in men.
Figure 5 again shows that men have more stress
than women when they have to give a presentation in
class, compared to 80.9% stress in women aid 101% stress in men,
954 THE MANAGEMENT OF STRESS IN STUDENTS
In Figure 6, we represent the reason that increased stress in young students is when they have an
exam, giving greater stress again 100% stress in men and 77.7% stress in women.
Figure 7 shows that stress in men is 100% against 62.5% in women by the concept of when they cannot
the contents within their classes.
THE MANAGEMENT OF STRESS IN STUDENTS 955
We can see from Figures 3 and 5 that men have.
womnien. Women have better stress management,
Figure 8 is very interesting, because if is the only chart that women have more stress than men. The lack of
time for academic activities may be women go
and the tespaasibilities that is required of women and men at home are different, which caused 100% stress in
women and 66.6% stress in men.
more stress on socializing with age, unlike
to college, but in México, they are also active at home,
956 THE MANAGEMENT OF STRESS IN STUDENTS
Figure 8. Stress of men and women due to the lack of time at the age of 26.
Stress Symptomatology
One symptom that clearly demonstrates the existence of stress is anxiety, which is part of a critical stress
state with the fear of the future and a general state of worry indefinitely.
State anxiety appears when the feeling of possible
failure is evident in the patient’s mind, which is one of
the most dangerous psychological manifestations of stress.
The heart, the head, and the different parts of the digestive system are the most important areas where
psychosomatic disorders are located.
Stress can cause disease, which weakens the walls of the stomach lining and opening the way to possible
gastric ulcers, pancreas also suffers the effect of stress with inflammation and when reach to the intestines, we
find digestive diseases related to stress, such as gastro
duodenal ulcers, ulcerative colitis, and colon irritation,
which are some diseases that cause stress.
One of the most serious problems that afflicts people under stress is the difficulty to rest properly, since
rest is essential for physical and mental recovery of any
organism.
Conclusions
We can see in this papers some of the factors that
exacerbate stress within the college student population
by age and sex. In relation to stress management by gender, we must notice that the stress in men is mainly the
sociability that is lost with age, and the stress in female population is the lack of time for academic work. It is
important to note here that the traditional role of women in Mexico still continues to stay in families, then, a
woman is the one that basically does the housework, therefore, in addition to the workplace or school, she has
to work double shifts, including the home. In the case
of men, the stress level increases as they approach the
time of the completion of their studies, which also means that they have to face new challenges, such as job
search.
. THE MANAGEMENT
OF STRESS IN STUDENTS 957
^ As discussed in the first part of this work, stress is
a state of imbalance, putting to work all of our defenses
our body, and the longer the time we are subject to that
state, the greater the problem is, it will be a problem to
a problem psychic somatic.
Stress can cause problems in different parts of our body, the heart, the head, and different parts of the
digestive system, which are the most important areas where psychosomatic disorders are located .
Because stress is the cause of some diseases, it is important to talk to college students to help them better
manage their stress, as well as strategies for planning and organizing time, which aimed at achieving a better
quality of life and overall health.
In México, prevention efforts in health are very poor, however, it is necessary to do so, taking into
consideration the statistics about the stress on the upper level student population, and in this case, this study
was conducted in the Faculty of Computation.
It is essential for students to learn to plan their academic activities, as well as organize their time around
the work and tasks that require them, and the organization of leisure, because in México, habits lack proper
planning and organization, primarily in education, as most students do their jobs and tasks with little time in
advance, instead of making them in a proportional manner and well-planned.
It is pertinent that students learn strategies for stress management as part of what is currently known in
psychology as emotional intelligence development and a change of attitude towards study, work, making use of
one of the new approaches of psychology―positive psychology, which puts emphasis on positive thinking,
optimism, constructive use of leisure time, resilience,
managing emotions, and promoting positive emotions
that will guide students to a better quality of life.
