发动机喷管非理想状态下牵连角直接测试方法研究
目前我院发动机使用的全轴摆动喷管摆动装置一般设计成非理想状态，导致摆角控制上由于牵连干扰而存在一定的误差．影响发动机试验中喷管的控制精度。只有通过测量发动机喷管牵连角，对另一个作动器进行牵连角补偿，才能消除发动机喷管牵连干扰。小组运用创新的技术及合理的软硬件设计。建立了发动机喷管非理想状态下牵连角直接测试方法，完成了牵连角测试。

全轴摆动喷管 非理想状态 牵连角 直接测试方法  

carrying out road way test, so they are comprehensively
referred as additional steer angle in this paper. As a part of
wheel’s sideslip angle, the additional steer angle can
increase the trend of under-steering or over-steering,
consequently has a significant influence on vehicle
dynamic steering characteristics'.
The current research on ESC mainly focused on the
vehicle state observationB 4) the control algorithm?? and
its test methods”. However, few of them investigated the
testing and modeling of additional steer angle. In general,
only vehicle lateral acceleration was taken into
consideration for observation of additional steer anglel
The K&C properties of different vehicles may vary largely.
As a result, the characteristics of additional steer angle also
vary to different extent. The observation accuracy resorting
to this method cannot meet the requirements of vehicle real
time stability control, especially under the extreme driving
conditions.
This paper will firstly analyze the influencing factors on
the additional steer angle based on the simulation
experiments, then establishes an observation model of
additional steer angle using support vector machine(SVM)
method, whose input vector elements are limited as the
ESC configuration sensor information. The established
observation model should take both the real-time and the
accuracy of evaluation into consideration, so as to meet the
AYC control requirements under complex driving
conditions.
2 Vehicle Model and Verification
The multi-body dynamics simulation model of a
passenger vehicle was built with ADAMS/Car platform,
which includes front & rear suspension system, steering
system, brake system, front & rear wheel models and
chassis systems. In the model, the ISO coordinate system
was used, and its origin point was located at the
intersection of vehicle left & right symmetry plane and
front wheel rotation axis when the vehicle was driven
straight. As shown in Fig. 1, X-axis and Y-axis point to the
rear and right side of the vehicle respectively, and both axes
are parallel with the ground when vehicle is still, while
Z-axis points upwards, i.e., perpendicular to the ground.
The main parameters of the model are shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Main parameters of vehicle model
Parameter Value
Vehicle body mass m, /kg 1462.5
Tire mass m,/kg 20
Front/rear axle load Fi, F:2/kg 900, 605
Wheel base L/mm 2790
Track width of front & rear axle , B,/mm 1 565, 1 560
Stiffness of rear suspension KK /(N - m ) 20 300
Steering angle ratio w 20
Tire type 195/65 R15
Type of front/rear suspension Double wishbone
2.1 Extraction of steering angle of front wheel
The test vehicle employs the independent front
suspension with double wishbone, and the rack & pinion
steering system. Thus the steering system has the
characteristics of simple structure, flexible layout and
reliable transmission. The left-front suspension structure is
shown in Fig. 2(a).
During the simulation test, the steering angle of front
An extraction example of the operation of left-front wheel
turning to the right is shown in Fig. 2(b). Because the front
wheel is rotated around the outer half axle 6, they can be
regarded as a whole in other directions. Two sequential
points pl and p, along the outer half axle are taken from the
outside of vehicle body to the inner side, which are marked
(x1, ￥1, z1)》 and (xa, ya, z2),fespectively in the coordinate
system of vehicle body. Therefore, the left-front wheel steer
angle can be expressed as
5. Steering tie-rod; 6. Outer half axle; 7. Knuckle.
Similarly, the right-front wheel steer angle can be
extracted by establishing the same request command based
on the right-front suspension.
2.2 Establishment of road model
In order to simulate compliance steer motion induced by
uneven road, a three-dimensional model of the sinusoidal
road (road _3d_sine_example.rdf) was built. Fig. 3 shows a
side view of the 3D road.
The simulation driver files were obtained by modifying
the templates of typical driver conditions in ADAMS
software. In this paper, the driver files of steady static
circular tests with fixed hand-wheel angle were created to
verify the accuracy of vehicle simulation model established
above, and some other driver files for tests, such as step
steering, constant velocity, acceleration and deceleration,
and so on, were also created to analyze the influencing
factors of additional steer angle. Besides, the driver files of
slalom and FMVSS 126 tests were created to build the
SVM model and to test its generalization ability. All the file
types were *.xml or *.dcf.
2.4 Verification of vehicle simulation model
The accuracy of vehicle simulation model was verified
by comparing the simulation test data with its roadway test
data under the same driving conditions. As shown in Fig. 4,
the steady static circular test was adopted, in which the
steering angle of hand wheel was fixed at a constant value
and the vehicle was driven in uniform acceleration until the
sideslip of any axle happened. The extracted parameters
used to make comparison include velocity, lateral
acceleration, yaw rate, steering radius and roll angle of
vehicle body, etc.
―――――Simulationdata
in which the steering robot was employed to control the
simulation tests were the same as the roadway tests. The
steering angle of hand-wheel was controlled to 210°, while the
All the test data were processed according to China
National Standard, steady static circular test method,
GB/T6323.6-1994. For example, the steering radius r of
whole vehicle can be calculated as
where u_ is velocity, km/h, and 4 is yaw rate, (°)/s.
As can be seen from Fig. 4(c), the consistency of
simulation and test results is more than 90%. Taking the
test error of sensors(about 5%) into consideration, the
vehicle simulation model established with ADAMS can
meet the accuracy requirements of analysis in this paper.
Simulation Model
The established ADAMS vehicle model was used here to
make the simulation tests to analyze the influencing factors
on additional steer angle, such as vehicle velocity, road
wave amplitude, step steering(lateral acceleration), vertical
load(longitudinal acceleration-deceleration), and so on.
3.1 Effect of velocity
During the simulation test, the vehicle was driven on the
flat road at the constant speed of 30 km/h, 60 km/h and 90
km/h, respectively, and the relationship curves of velocity
with front wheel steering angle are shown in Fig. 5.
0 1 2 3 4 5
Time 《 /s
In this paper, we define steering angle of turning left as
positive, while turning right negative. On the horizontal
road, the additional steer angle can only be regarded as
compliance steer angle, and the input force was mainly the
longitudinal force acting on the driving wheel and the
effects on the additional steer angle, whose magnitude is
only 0.001°. The main reason would be that the
suspension「ss longitudinal stiffness was very large.
Therefore, we neglect the factor of velocity or regard it as
constant in the following simulation.
3.2 Effect of road wave amplitude
Supposing the vertical stiffness of suspensions and tires
on both sides were the same, the suspension compliance of
both sides were also the same when the vehicle was driven
in straight line on the same road. The additional steer angle
under this condition is regarded as the compliance steer
angle. During the simulation tests, the vehicle was driven
straight at the constant velocity of 60 km/h. The sinusoidal
road was adopted and its wavelength was set as 8000 mm
and the road amplitude 10 mm, 20 mm, 30 mm and 40 mm
respectively. The first wave started from 1 s after vehicle
was driven uniformly.
As shown in Fig. 6, the compliance steer angle increases
with the increasing of the road amplitude. When the road
amplitude is 40 mm, equivalent to Grade D road, the
compliance steer angle is up to 0.3°, bigger than the toe
angle of the vehicle. The compliance steer angle has the
characteristic of oscillation, and tends to be the steady state
after two sinusoidal cycles input. In addition, the wheels on
both sides are attached by a steering tie rod, and there exists
the interference between left & right wheel「s steering
motion. When the road wave amplitude becomes greater,
the interference degree will be more obvious.
Supposing that the vehicle was driven on a flat road and
steered at the same time, both the roll steer and compliance
steer would happen. The step steering simulation tests were
conducted and step steering was input at 1 s after the
beginning of simulation. When at 2 s, the steering angle of
hand wheel reached the maximum of 90°, 180°, ―90° and
―180°, respectively, then was fixed up. During the
simulation tests, the velocity was kept at 60 km/h. The
simulation results are shown in Fig. 7.
0 1 2 3 4 5
Time ￠/s
The front wheel steer angle ￠ obtained from the
simulation consists of the steering angle b induced by the
steering of hand-wheel, and the additional steer angle 6
(…′二(/)_孳，(3)
z`^′
where i, is the transmission ratio of the vehicle’s steering
system.
As shown in Fig. 7, the scope of additional steer angles
is ￡1.2° It is clear that both the roll steer angle and the
compliance steer angle do exist, and their absolute values
grow greatly with the increasing of step steering angle. Due
to the positive camber for both side wheels, the additional
steer angles when turning left are greater than the values
when turning right.
3.4 Effect of longitudinal acceleration
and deceleration
When the vehicle accelerates or decelerates on a flat road,
the whole mass of the vehicle will shift between front and
rear axles, then the additional steer will be regarded as the
compliance steer. The simulation tests were conducted
under straight-line acceleration and braking conditions.
When the simulating was under the acceleration
accelerating driving started. The simulation tests were
conducted under different acceleration of 0.2g, 0.3g, 0.4￠g
and 0.5g, respectively, and all the results are shown in Fig.
8(a). We can sec that with the increase of acceleration, the
additional steer angle grows greatly, and at the acceleration
of 0.5g, the compliance steer angle will be up to
0.3°(absolute value).
When the simulating was under the braking condition,
the initial velocity was set as 120 km/h, and the gear at
shift 5. The simulation tests were conducted on high
adhesion coefficient road and the straight-line braking
operation was employed. The braking started at 1s after the
beginning of simulation. The simulations were conducted
under different deceleration of 0.3g, 0.4g, 0.5g and 0.6g,
respectively, and all the results are shown in Fig. 8(b). We
can see that the additional steer angle is within the range of
+0.12°, and the greater the deceleration is, the larger the
compliance steer angle will be.
一 一 一 Acceleration 0.2g
wheel additional steer angle under deceleration is smaller
than the angle under acceleration, which is related to
suspension movement characteristics. Besides, while the
value of left-front wheel additional steer angle is negative
under the acceleration condition, the vehicle tends to turn
right. However, under the braking condition, the vehicle tends
to turn left. Thus. the influence of deceleration on vehicle's
steering characteristics is contrary to the acceleration「s.
Using Support Vector Machine
As analyzed above, the influence of lateral acceleration
on the additional steer angle is maximal, which mainly
depends on the steering angle of hand wheel and vehicle
velocity, followed by the longitudinal acceleration-
deceleration and the road wave amplitude, which are on the
same magnitude. Other factor such as the longitudinal
velocity has little effects on the additional steer angle and
could be neglected. In general, vehicle dynamics control
system only consider the relationship of additional steer
angle with lateral acceleration, and neglects other factors,
because the dynamic vehicle model can hardly be
established accurately,especially under extreme driving
conditions. Fortunately, the support vector machine (SVM)
nonlinear mapping relationship. However, it is difficult to
collect the samples and to select the algorithm to building
control accuracy!!! 2,
4.1 Determination of samples
In order to concretely quantify the additional steer angle
under complex driving conditions, the input vector of the
samples include vehicle longitudinal acceleration, lateral
acceleration, yaw rate of body, displacement of
suspension’s lower swing arm and steering angle of
hand-wheel, while the output vector include only the
additional steer angle. The displacement of suspension’s
lower swing arm can indirectly reflect the changes of the
road wave amplitude, so it is suggested that an acceleration
sensor which is sensitive to the upward direction could be
installed, and its output signals could be processed to obtain
the displacement of sensitive direction. The method of
FFT-DDI(fast Fourier transfer-digital double integration) is
supposed to process the measurement data of acceleration
sensor, in which the filtering of frequency domain and the
integration of time domain are conducted alternatively.
While conducting the filtering of frequency domain, the
data of acceleration signal were firstly made FFT(fast
Fourier transfer), then several front data and the last data of
other 4 input vector elements can be acquired from
standard ESC configuration sensors.
Both learning samples and test samples were obtained
from the slalom tests. These test data have covered the
large steering angle of turning left and right, the big
variation of vehicle lateral acceleration, yaw rate and
suspension compliance, so they can reflect the additional
steer angle responding to the input variation more
effectively. The slalom tests are usually conducted on
horizontal road, and the road wave amplitude is almost zero,
but it will not affect the algorithm completion mentioned
below.
The simulation driver files of slalom tests were created
based on the ADAMS/Car simulation model built above.
The slalom input steering was trigged from 1 s after the
beginning of simulation. The maximal distance of the
deviation from the center line in the slalom tests was 2 m.
One of the driving curves of slalom tests is shown in Fig. 9.
The samples were obtained by changing the deviation
distance from the center line (such as 0.5 Im, 1 m, 1.5 m, 2
m) and velocity (such as 60 km/h, 70 km/h, 80 km/h, 90
data were selected randomly and processed as follows. The
first lines of each data file were picked up and combined in
order as the starting of a new learning sample. Then, the
rest odd rows of each date file were picked up and
appended sequentially in order as before. The test samples
were determined using the even rows of any test file of
slalom tests. Finally, the FMVSS 126 tests were supposed
to conduct and create generalization test samples. All the
samples should be normalized, because it could avoid the
inconsistent contribution of different range of input
elements to output accuracy, and improve the calculating
speed simultaneously.
【.30 -
We use the SVM toolbox LibSVM (Matlab version) to
build the model to estimate the vehicle’s additional steer
angle. LibSVM, developed by Professor Chih-Jen Lin, is a
general software package of SVM, which provides five
common kernel function of linear, polynomial, radical basis
function, sigmoid and precomputed kemel. LibSVM is
widely used in classification (including C-SVC and
estimation of distribution (one-class-SVM) "4.
The LibSVM toolbox was firstly installed on Matlab
platform, and the function svmtrain was used to train the
samples to obtain the regression model of additional steer
angle. Then the function svmpredict was recommended to
get the estimated value by inputting the test samples to the
regression model. Finally, the comparison between the
estimated value and output element of test samples was
made to determine the accuracy of regression model and
whether the model parameters need to be adjusted again. In
this paper, the E-stupport vector regression(￠-SVR)
algorithm was employed, and its kernel function was
determined as RBF (Gaussian radial basis function), i.e.,
where X is the input vector of samples; 心 is the center
vector of kernel function; o is the width parameter of
kernel function, which controls the function radial scope,
and the greater the value is, the wider the Gauss filter
frequency scope will be.
In the s-SVR algorithm, 5 reflects the deviation between
estimated values and sample values. The more the value 5
is, the less the number of support vectors is required. As a
result, the higher real-time model could be achieved. In
addition, the penalty coefficient C and Gaussian radial
basis function parameter o also have a great effect on
learning speed and estimation accuracy. The determination
of value & depends on actual application goals, while C
and o can be optimized using grid-search and cross-
validation method.
Table 2 shows the performance indexes of s-SVR
algorithm obtained from simulation tests. For a given 5, the
optimal parameter group(C,C ) was obtained as follows.
Firstly, a two-dimensional grid plane was determined based
on the scope of parameters C and o . For each cross point
of the grid plane, the learning error of the additional steer
angle was calculated using least squares support vector
machine (LS-SVM). Finally, the parameter group with the
minimal learning error was optimal. The PC’s timer method
was employed to determine the SVM model prediction
time-consuming on MCU, where the difference of these
two CPU’s main frequency was considered. The MCU’s
main frequency was 200 MHz, but the PC’s 1.6 GHz. The
timing error of Windows operating system used on PC was
more than 5 ms. In order to reduce the impact of timer error,
the average value of 10 tests was resorted to determine the
prediction time-consuming and each test was composed of
2 000 times continuous prediction for the same input vector.
As shown in Fig. 10, the curves were fit very well when ￠ is
0.15.
Table 2. Regression results for different 5
0.001 487 0.0021 0.946 5 (32, 0.25) 2.363
0.005 367 0.0020 0.9552 (32, 0.25) 1.905
0.010 254 0.0017 0.967 0 (32, 0.25) 1.238
0.020 102 0.0013 0.965 1 (16, 0.25) 0.724
0.050 26 0.001 2 0.976 6 (16, 0.25) 0.492
0.100 14 0.0009 0.9899 (32, 0.125) 0.444
0.150 13 0.001 0 0.972 5 (4, 0.25) 0.362
0.250 9 0.001 3 0.915 1 (4, 0.25) 0.328
一一一一Sampledata
As shown in Table 2, with the decrease of 5, the squared
correlation coefficient of estimated curve with sample
curve firstly increases and then decreases, but square errors
firstly decreases and then increases. When s equals to 0.1°,
both of them achieve the peak value, and the regression
effect is the best. However, the smaller the ￠ is, the more
the support vectors will be required, so the estimation
algorithm will consume longer time. When & was bigger
than 0.005°, the calculation time of MCU with 200 MHz
main frequency will be less than 2 ms, which has met the
real-time control requirements.
4.3 “Model test of generalization ability
In order to verify the model generalization ability, the
FMVSS 126 simulation tests were conducted using
ADAMS/Car simulation model built above. The FMVSS
reflect effectively the variations of each influencing factor
on additional steer angle. The input vectors to the model
were determined as section 4.2, and the prediction results
were compared with the sample data to analyze the model
generalization ability.
During the simulation tests, the vehicle was driven
straight on the high adhesion road at the initial velocity of
80 km/h. The vehicle was subjected to use a steering
pattern of a sine wave at 0.7 Hz frequency with a 500 ms
delay beginning at the second peak amplitude. The peak of
sine wave was determined as 1.58, 28, 36, 46 56 and 64,
respectively. 6 was determined by the slowly increasing
steer test, in which the simulation model was run at the
velocity of 80 km/h and the steering angle was increased
by 13.5(°)/s until the lateral acceleration of approximately
0.5g was obtained. 6 was the steer angle of hand wheel for
this moment. and was about 30° for the simulation
vehicle!” Fig. 11 shows the histories of the steering angle
of hand wheel and the yaw rate of vehicle at the peak of
sine wave 26, 46and 66 respectively.
The samples for generalization ability testing employed
the same normalization coefficients of the model learning
samples. Table 3 shows the generalization results of the
FMVSS 126 tests when & equals to 0.1°, and (C,a ) (32,
0.125). When the peak value of steering angle of hand
coefficient 1s maximal. In terms of MSE, the more the peak
nonlinear driving condition, the better prediction effect
is highly adapted to the FMVSS 126 tests in prediction of
the additional steer angle. Fig. 12 shows the additional steer
angle prediction curve of lef front wheel in FMVSS 126
test when Op is 150°,
Table 3. Results of generalization test
￡= 0.1%, (C, 6) = (32, 0.125)
Peak value of steering angle ~~ Mean square Squared correlation
of hand wheel error coefficient
Gn/(0) MSE R
45 0.256 3 0.969 6
60 0.267 6 0.968 6
90 0.146 8 0.9750
120 0.1221 0.974 4
150 0.075 7 0.9758
180 0.071 6 0.965 5
(1) An experimental observation method for the
additional steer angle is brought forward and verified based
on the simulation tests and the SVM model. It has
expanded the accurate observation methods of the
additional steer angle under extreme driving conditions.
(2) The quantitative analysis shows that the influence of
lateral acceleration on the additional steer angle is maximal
(the magnitude up to 1°), followed by the longitudinal
acceleration-deceleration and the road wave amplitude (the
magnitude up to 0.3°). Other factor such as the single
longitudinal velocity has little effects on the additional steer
angle and can be neglected.
(3) The input parameters of the SVM model are mainly
composed of the standard configuration sensors signals of
ESC. The results of both the slalom tests and the FMVSS
126 tests show that the prediction accuracy and the
calculation time-consuming of the model can meet the
requirements of ESC real-time control.
