国产超轻型飞机A2C-L获型号设计批准书
2015年1月l5日，中国民航中南地区管理局向中航通用飞机有限责任公司所属中国特种飞行器研究所／中航通飞研究院有限公司研制的A2C―L超轻型飞机颁发了型号设计批准书，标志着该型飞机正式取得进入市场的“通行证”。这也是中航工业特飞所／中航通飞研究院在A2C水上型飞机投放市场广受青睐后推出的新型号，使A2C飞机拥有了更为广阔的发展空间。

超轻型飞机 型号设计 国产 中国民航 通用飞机 中南地区 研究院 研究所  

外特性
0 Introduction
With the extension of the military combat range,
the amount of spatial targets increases rapidly.
Infrared detecting has become an effective method for
detecting spatial targets? Thus analysis of infrared feature
forspatial targets has greatyalueandsignificand?51 Taking
a satellite as the research object, the present literatures
have not analyzed the influence of satellite's physical
parameters changing with the temperature on its
infrared feature k3. So the theoretical calculation models
are built up for a satellite’ s temperature field and
further the calculation method of the temperature field
is deduced with the use of FEM when physical
parameters of its solar panels change with the
temperature, as well as the influence of physical
parameters of solar panels changing with the
temperature on the surface temperature and the infrared
radiation feature of the satellite is analyzed in detail.
1 Heat balance equations and solving
process with the use of FEM
In Fig.1, the three~dimensional sectional view of
the satellite is sketched. I and d, are the length of
side and the thickness of the satellite’s body. I; and
乙 are the length and the width of the solar panel. d,
is the thickness of the solar panel. I} and I, are the
outer interface and the inner interface of the satellite.
The structural parameters are: =1 m, d,=0.01 m ,
a=4 m, l,=1 m, 乙 =0.01 m.
consists of heat conduction and thermal radiation. The
three ―dimensional heat conduction process of the
satellite is got by Eq.(1), where p is the material density
of the satellite, c is the specific heat, k is the thermal
conductivity, 了 is the temperature and is the time.
The boundary condition on outer interface I of
the satellite is got by Eq.(2), where ny, m,, ny, are the
X, ￥, z axial cosine components of the outward unit
normal, the subscript 1 of n denotes I, a is solar
radiation absorptivity, & is infrared emissivity, n is
photoelectric transformation efficiency of solar battery.
If outer interface of the satellite is not the solar
battery, m equals 0. 了 is the temperature of the spatial
background. Es, Eg and Ej; are solar heat flux, earth
albedo heat flux and earth heat flux, which the
satellite gets, and the calculation methods for them
can be got in literatuiresL61,
The boundary condition on inner interface F,of the
satellite is got by Eq.(3), where G is the net radiation
density which can be got by Gebhart method, gy, is
radiation density of the inner heat source.
Discretizing the solution domain into a number of
finite elements and using the weighted residual
method, one can obtain finite element matrix equation
of heat conduction process with boundary conditons in
the global solution domain. In the finnite element
matrix equation of Eq.(4), [C] is heat capacity matrix,
[K] is heat conductivity matrix, {P} is load vector,
{T} is the nodal temperature vector, {T} is the vector
of nodal temperature derivative with respect to time.
Eq.(4) suppose the satellite’s physical parameters
do not change with the temperature, such as the specific
heat and the thermal conductivity k. In fact, these
parameters always change with the temperature. So the
finite element matrix equation should be Eq.(5), where
the heat capacity matrix [C(D] and the heat conductivity
matrix [K(7)] change with the temperature.
[C(DUTH+IK(DUT}={P} (5)
With the use of the interpolation method, one can
obtain Eq.(6), where the subscript n and n+1 denote
the time ￠, and 5hyl, N=(fru-~D/Afb, N,a=(t-t,)/At, N,=-
1/At, N,u=-1/At, At=t,,,―t..
[C(CD] 一 N[Cn]+Nna[Cnu]
{T}=NAT.}4+Nuui{T,ui}
(K(DUT} = NK HT +N [Kid { Toa })
{P}=NA{P,}+Npa{ Pr} (6)
With the use of Eq.(6) and the weighted residual
method, one can get Eq.(7) from Eq.(5).
With the use of the Galerkin method and the
iterative method, the temperature field of the satellite
can be got from Eq.(7). In the calculation process the
value of 8 is 2/3.
2 IR radiation feature calculation
The infrared radiant emittance M,,; of the satellite「s
surface differential area dA;, which consists of the self
radiant emittance M,,,; and the reflected radiant emitt―
ance My, ,, is got by Eq.(8). The calculation methods of
My, and Mg, can be obtained from the literature!”
Figure 2 shows the coordinate system in which
IR radiant intensity of the satellite is calculated. The
orthogonal axes respectively have the same directions
with the corresponding axes in the geocentric
equatorial inertial coordinate system.
The satellite is assumed to be diffusing grey body.
IR radiant intensity of the satellite in the direction
indicated by Or and Py can be got by Eq.(9).
where the subscript i denotes the index of partitioned
surface elements of the satellite,R &,is the outward
unit normal vector of the surface differential area dA,,
ng eo, is the outward unit normal vector and ng o =
(〔sinbncosCOr,sinbmsinQOm,cosbr}.
In Fig.1,the satellite is three ―axis stabilized
which is in the sun―synchronous orbit. xy surfaces are
radiating surfaces and the others are covered with the
multi ~layer heat ―barrier material. +x axis points to
motion direction of the satellite and +z axis points to
geocenter. The obverse side of solar panels which has
cell battery is always oriented towards the sun in the
sunshine and towards the space in the earth’ s
shadow. The satellite orbit period is divided into 600
intervals. The orbit parameters and the physical
parameters of the satellite’ s body can be obtained
from the literature [8]. The temperature distribution
and infrared feature of the satellite’s body has been
also calculated and analyzed in the same literature, so
in this paper the influence of physical parameters of
solar panels changing with the temperature on its
surface temperature, infrared feature and the spatial
distributions of infrared radiation intensities in 3―6 pum
band and in 6-16 pm band of the satellite is mainly
calculated and analyzed. The physical parameters of
solar panels changing with the temperature are: k=
吴吴河吴吴吴命浩吴吴吴唐技贺吴命吴吴颂贺吴吴唐技吴吴沥吴吴吴吴吴吴吴仪林技仪育日a
(0.002 17+0.26)W/(m -K), ￠=(2.87 7+68)J/(kg 「K),
1=(15.8-0.068)%, t is the Celsius temperature of
solar panels’ cell battery. The other properties can be
also got in the literature [8].
In Fig.3, (a) is the surface temperature of solar
panel of which the physical parameters change with the
temperature. (b) is the temperature difference between
the solar panel in this paper and the solar panel of
which the physical parameters do not change with the
temperature in the literature [8]. As shown in Fig.3,
physical parameters which change with the temperature
have influence on the temperature of solar panel. In the
most time of satellite orbit period, the temperature of
solar panel of which the physical parameters change is
higher. The temperature difference of the inverse side is
greater than the obverse side's.
In Fig.4, (al) and (a2) are infrared radiant
exitances of solar panel of which the physical
parameters change with the temperature in 3-6 pm
band and 6-16 um band, (bl) and (b2) are radiant
exitance differences in two IR bands. As shown in
(al) and (a2) of Fig.4, the radiant exitances of
inverse side in two IR bands descend suddenly when
the satellite leaves the earth’s shadow area and just
comes into the sunshine area. This is because in the
earth’ s shadow area the inverse side is always
towards the earth and reflects much earth radiation, but
in the sunshine area the inverse side isn’t towards the
earth and reflects less earth radiation because of the
obverse side which has cell b attery always orienting
towards the sun at the moment. By the same token, the
reason of the inverse side「 s infrared radiant exitances
rising suddenly when the satellite leaves the sunshine
inverse side reflecting more earth radiation in the earth「s
shadow area than ones in the sunshine area. As shown in
(bl) and (b2) of Fig.4, one can find radiant exitances in
two IR bands are enhanced in the most time of satellite
orbit period and the radiant exitance difference in 6-16 pm
band is greater than the one in 3―6 pum band.
In Fig.5, (al) is the spatial distribution of radiant
intensity in 3-6 pm band of the satellite at the 435th
interval of the satellite’s orbit period. At this moment
the radiant intensity difference in 3―6 um band is the
greatest. As shown in (bl), the greatest difference is
6.348 3 W/sr. (a2) is the spatial distribution of radiant
intensity in 6-16 pm band at the 448th interval. The
radiant intensity difference in 6-16Lm band is the greatest
at preasent and the greatest difference is 32.595 0 W/sr
which is shown in (b2).
According to the calculation results, one can find
that physical patameters of solar panels changing with
the tem perature have the influence on the surface
temperature, infrared feature and the spatial distributions
of infrared radiation intensities in 3―6 pum band and in
6-16 pm band. The influence on the infrared feature of
the satellite in 6~16 um band is more distinct than the
one in 3-6 pm band. So in the calculation of spatial
targets’ infrared feature the influence on their infrared
feature which is caused by physical parameters changing
with the temperature should be analyzed. The research
results of this paper have referential value on the
improving calculation precision of infrared feature and
infrared detecting of spatial targets.
