基于优化模型的中国民用运输机场人口覆盖评价
随着中国机场建设速度加快,机场布局评价及优化已成为交通地理学重要的研究议题。针对县级需求点,对中国2005年和2010年机场布局进行基于优化覆盖模型的模拟,进而从覆盖率、重叠率和冗余度三个指标对机场布局进行全国和分区的评价。结果表明:”十一五”期间,中国机场布局在人口覆盖率方面有明显提升,但与最优覆盖率相比还存在一定的优化空间,在中部布局机场能更大地提高机场人口覆盖率。人口重叠率虽有所上升,但与最优重叠率的差异缩小了,故整体重叠率实际得到了较好的优化,分区有一定差异:东部实际重叠率高于最优重叠率,而中部还需提高约10%才能达到最优重叠率。有效服务半径这一地理概念在机场规划中的引入对重叠率改善起到了一定作用,但也是造成2010年机场冗余度上升的原因之一。

民用运输机场 空间优化 覆盖率 门槛距离 MCLP LSCP  

撷,何霖,茵.AMXXS技术及其在肉速飞行命气助研究中的应用.实
0 Introduction
Complex flow field occurs around and inside an
aircraft, such as compressible boundary layer, shock/
boundary layer interaction, complex engine flows
and so on as shown in Fig. 1, when it speeds up to
supersonic Or hypersonict’, To improve the per-
formance of high speed flight,endeavors have been
made in the past several decades. However, for the
complexity and instability of the supersonic turbu-
lence,studying its fine structures and flow mecha-
nism is very difficult. The existing experimental
methods have their own shortages for supersonic
turbulence study, such as Schlieren, filtered Ray-
leigh scattering (FRS), and planar laser induced
fluorescence (PLIF) 3 and the main reasons are their
low resolution and signal noise ratio (SNR),
NPLS, as a newly developed flow visualization tech-
nique by the authors’ group, can visualize tempo-
ral-resolved flow structures in a cross-section of in-
stantaneous 3D supersonic flow at high spatiotem-
poral resolution’?. In recent years, Yi’ s many
studies have demonstrated that NPLS is a powerful
tool to study supersonic flow, especially for super-
sonic turbulence ?, In 2007, Zhao et al visualized
the flow structure of pressure unmatched supersonic
mixing layer using NPLS, and discussed the influ-
ence of shock wave and expand wave on structures
of mixing layer and the influence of pressure un-
mat(二l`【(…(二l〔7〕' Based on NPLS, Zhao Y uxin et al stud-
ied the shocklet in supersonic turbulent mixing lay-
er, and in NPLS images the shocklets could be easi-
1y distinguished" . Zhao et al studied the interaction
between shock wave and turbulent mixing layer
based on NPLS! 【 and observed the interaction be-
tween oblique shock wave and boundary layer and
the influence of large vortex in mixing layer on ob-
lique shock wave. In 2008, based on NPLS images
of supersonic turbulent mixing layer, Yi et al stud-
ied the fractal dimension of transition region and
turbulence region of supersonic mixing layer. And
they found that in the transition region, the fractal
dimension increases with turbulence, and in the tur-
bulence region, the fractal dimension doesn’t vary
flow around a concave optical spheric conic model by
NPLS, and the NPLS images revealed shock wave,
expansion wave, turbulent boundary layer and wake
in the flow. In 2009, Yi et al studied the supersonic
mixing layer with the convective Mach number ot
0.5. From the NPLS image of supersonic mixing
layer, readers can easily distinguish the fine struc-
tures, and estimate its transitional region. Based on
the NPLS images, the control effect could be esti-
mated easily[IrI!:1,、 And as shown in the NPLS ima-
ges, Yi et al analyzed geometrical character and
temporal evolution of large-scale structure of turbu-
lent boundary layer. In 2009, Yi et al introduced
NPLS technique in detail[13151,。 Nanoparticles are
used as NPLS tracer, and pulse planar laser is used
as its light source. By recording location of the trac-
er particles with CCD, the flow structure with high
spatiotemporal resolution can be imaged in NPLS
image. In literature, the flow-following ability and
the scattering characteristics of nanoparticles were
studied, and the results showed that the dynamic be-
havior and light scattering characteristics of nanoparti-
cles make NPLS be able to image the supersonic flow
structure at high spatiotemporal resolution and SNR.
have been developed by the authors. In 2009, Tian
et al developed a density measurement method
named NPLS-based density technique (NPLS-DT).
This technique can measure planar instantaneous
density field in 3D supersonic flow by calibrating the
relationship between density field and gray of NPLS
In 2010, YI S H et al proposed an aero-optical aber-
ration measuring method, NPLS-based wavefront
technique (NPLS-WT). This method has three sig-
nificant innovations; (1) high spatiotemporal reso-
lution; (2) it can avoid the integral effects and stud-
y the wavefront aberration induced by the flow field
of interest locally; (3) it can avoid the influence
from the test section wall boundary layers and envi-
ronmental disturbances[i*21,Based on the density-
velocity simultaneous measurement method, Reyn-
olds stress of supersonic turbulence can be obtained
through special experimental arrangement.
1 NPLS techniques
The authors have studied on measuring the
structures of supersonic turbulence by non-intrusive
method in recent years, including the traditional in-
terferometry and the optical scattering. The results
indicate that because of the influences of compressi-
bility, shock wave, instability and other factors,
the traditional visualization and measurement meth-
ods encounter some difficulties. For supersonic
flow, the flow visualization technique based on Mie
scattering cannot satisfy the requirement of follow-
ing the flow faithfully, especially when there are
shock waves. On the other hand, for the techniques
based on molecule tracer, more expensive intensi-
fied CCD is necessary because of its weak signal.
Thus, it is difficult to achieve high spatiotemporal
resolution for these techniques,
Rapid developments and extensive applications
of modern laser technology, imaging, image process
technologies, and nanotechnology offer the opportu-
nity for measuring the fine structures of supersonic
flow. And in this condition, the authors developed
NPLS technique several years ago, which can image
fine structures of supersonic flow at high spatiotem-
poral resolution.
As shown in Fig. 2, the NPLS system is com-
posed of light source system, nanoparticle genera-
tor, recording system, synchronization system, and
a computer. The light source is a dual-cavity Nd:
Yag laser, whose wavelength is 532nm laser pulse
500m]. A laser sheet with thickness of about
0. 5mm is formed by the sheet optics system ,and
then illuminates the flow region of interest. The
nanoparticle generator is driven by high pressure,
and the concentration of the output particles can be
adjusted. The recording system is an interline
transfer CCD whose resolution is 2048 X 2048 and
the shortest time interval of double-exposure is
0.2us. The synchronizer receive signals sent from
the computer, and control the time sequences of la-
ser and the CCD to make sure that the two laser
beams are exposed in the frames of dual-exposure
respectively. The computer not only sends synchro-
nization signals to the synchronizer, but also stores
and processes NPLS images. With the dual-expo-
sure technique, NPLS can measure the instantane-
ous flow structure, and the temporal evolution of
the flow between the two pulses can also be yielded.
The flow-following ability of the NPLS tracer
particle in supersonic flow was studied from particle
dynamics by Zhao Y X, et al’, and the particle di-
ameter was measured with oblique shock wave cali-
bration experiment, as shown in Fig. 3. The effec-
tive diameter of nanoparticle of NPLS is 42. 5nm ,
and its relaxation time is 66. 3ns. As a flow visualization
technique, NPLS focuses on holistic scattering character
of a cluster of particles, whose scattering character can
be calculated from Mie scattering theory, and the
results revealed that its scattering character is rela-
tive to scattering angle, wavelength of incident la-
ser, its diameter and refractive index.
Based on NPLS, a density measurement meth-
od (NPLS-DT, NPLS-based Density Technique)
is that in the working range of CCD, the variation of
gray scale of the images represents the variation of
local density in the flow. The relationship between
gray scale and local density can be qualified after re-
moving the effects from background, dark signal
and non-uniform distribution of laser sheet, To be
brief, it can be divided into 3 steps. First, NPLS is
affirmatively used to get high SNR images of testing
flow field. Second, these NPLS images should be
calibrated to eliminate impacts from background,dark
signal and laser non-uniformity. Third, perform a den-
sity field calibration to work out the relationship:
丨()二〉/`〈′)=(z1]_纂_乙′】/一__(Z′乙/2__}一(z:〈】I二餐′{_-.'(l)
2,3 火 is needed. Mount a wedge in the testing
chamber and get NPLS images of oblique shock,
then work out the density of sampling region down-
stream of the oblique shock based on the oblique
shock equation, and get a first pair of sample data
process 10 obtain a series of pi =f) 兄 二 一 2 , 3 v
as shown in Fig. 4(￠). Owning to this method, Reyn-
olds stress distribution can be obtained by performing
UCTLHDILYT VOIULILY DLIIIULLALICUUD 1HITAad UL THICEHIL,
For the advantages of NPLS in measuring fine
structures of supersonic turbulence, several typical
supersonic flows were studied, including supersonic
boundary layer, shock/boundary layer interaction,
mixing layer and so on,
2.1 Supersonic boundary layer
Supersonic boundary layer, a typical flow, has
been studied using NPLS in the past several years.
The flow structures of the supersonic boundary lay-
er in vertical plane and spanwise plane were cap-
tured by NPLS. As shown in Fig. 5, it is a NPLS
image of flat plate boundary layer in vertical plane
二 1 AVE 一 “ 伟 一 E e LUT HUW IGRKIULL IY VW 7 Ling
from the leading edge of plate, Fig, 5 displays the
whole transition process of the boundary layer. Un-
til 180mm distance from the leading edge, the flow
is still laminar, Then the flow transits into turbu-
lence and becomes fully developed from X =
250mm. Fig. 6 and Fig. 7 are the flow regions with-
in 170~250mm and 190~220mm from the leading
edge of the plate, respectively. From these images,
it is easy to find the development of instability and
the emergence of hairpin vortexes. Fig. 8 is the
NPLS image of fully developed turbulent boundary
layer, which is at the location of 250~320mm from
the leading edge, Compared with the cases in Fig. 6
and Fig. 7, the flow structures in Fig. 8 are different
absolutely and much more complex, However, the
fine structures in the turbulent boundary layer are
revealed clearly in Fig, 8 all the same. Fig. 9 (a)
shows the spanwise NPLS image of supersonic
boundary layer corresponding to Fig. 8. And in ad-
dition, the fully developed turbulent boundary layer
of wind tunnel is different from that on a {lat plate,
as shown in Fig, 9 (b), By performing PIV tech-
nique, time-averaged streamwise velocity profiles at
different locations and Reynolds stress distributions
of turbulent boundary layer are present as shown in
Fig. 10 to Fig. 12 by velocity-density measurements.
洱充分发展的湍流边界层的NPLS图像(b)
Fig. 11 Time-averaged velocity of fully developed supersonic
turbulent boundary layer corresponding to Fig. 8
图 11 与图8对应的充分发展的超声速湍流边界层的时间平均速度剔面
4110王Y。团水此E木玑坂四J主H王玑Elc5l\′【】U口一
personic boundary layer in different spanwise planes
are shown in Fig. 13 which reveals the hairpin vor-
tex. While that of fully developed turbulent bound-
ary layer is shown in Fig. 14 revealing the self-simi-
lar feature of turbulent boundary layer.
Fig. 13 “Spanwise structures in the transition region of
supersonic boundary layer
图 13 “超声速边界层转换区的展向结构
Based on NPLS, the structure of shock/bound-
ary layer interaction (SWBLI) was studied. As
shown in Fig, 15, it is the NPLS image of SWBLI in
Ma=3 flow, and its spatial resolution is 43. 5um/
pixel. The image revealed shock wave, expansion
wave, turbulent boundary layer, and separation
bubble. From the NPLS image, we can find that
the vortex moves downstream, and its transfigura-
tion is not obvious. Using NPLS_DT, the density
field of the flow field shown in Fig. 15 was measured
at high spatial resolution, Density variation and
temporal evolution of the SWBLI can be distin-
guished easily, Fig. 16 is the velocity field and the
stream lines of the SWBLI flow field.
2.3 Supersonic flow over a compression ramp
NPLS images of supersonic laminar/turbulent
flow over a compression ramp are shown in Fig. 17,
it can be seen distinctly from the images that there
are obvious differences between the laminar flow
and the turbulent flow in compression ramp, even
though the ramp angle is the same. For laminar
flow, the development of the supersonic flow and
its transition to turbulence are rapid. Flow separa-
tion oceurs due to the influence of adverse pressure
gradient. Some typical flow structures such as K-H
vortices, shear layer, separation shock and reat-
tachment shock are visible clearly. However the
thickness of turbulent boundary layer does not in-
crease obviously and there is not evident separation
in the flow field, as shown in Fig. 17 (b). The
boundary layer adlieres to the wall in the whole flow
field, These experimental results of flow visualiza-
tion have revealed that, compared with laminar
flow, the performance of turbulent flow is more
stable when suffering the effects of adverse pressure
gradient, and is more difficult to separate.
4.4 1ransiion of tne nypersonic pounaary ayer
The following ability, scattering characteristic
and reuniting of nano particles are the key points
under the consideration of NPLS. The distribution
of nano particles can reveal the exact flow field
structures as long as its following ability meets the
flows. However, when tested flow accelerates to
hypersonic, the following ability of nano particles
would be challenged again. NPLS was applied in the
KD-01 shock wind tunnel to study hypersonic flow
as shown in Fig 18. In Fig, 19, it is the hypersonic
flow structure of boundary layer transition meas-
ured by NPLS. The boundary layer changed from
laminar to turbulent. By now, investigations on
separating and scattering nano particles have to be
kept going on, in order to improve NPLS technique
and make it more applicable in hypersonic flow
measurements.
2.5 Supersonic mixing layer
In the past several years, spatiotemporal char-
acteristic of supersonic mixing layers with convec-
tive Mach number 0. 12, 0. 21, 0. 24, 0, 32, 0. 50
and 0, 60 were studied by the authors. The super-
sonic mixing layer wind tunnel is designed using
double supersonic laminar nozzle and optical acces-
ses for non-intrusive measurement, which can gen-
erate uniform flow filed with low noise, as shown in
Fig. 20. Changing the Mach number of the double
nozzle, various convective Mach number can be
gained for experimental study. The results revealed
Kelvin-Helmholtz instable vortexes in the flow
field. Its spatial features and temporalevolution can
be yielded trom NPLS images,which are shown in
Fig. 21. Zhao et al also studied its spanwise struc-
ture, and found the intriguing vortexes due to the
secondary instability. Fig, 22 shows Reynolds stress
图 20 超声速混合层风洞晓管段和试验世
The flow field around a spheric conic model in
Ma 一 3. 8 flow was studied using NPLS, and its
flow structure, density field"”, , aero-optical
effeet[il and velocity field?!, were studied. The
structure of the flow around a spheric conic model is
rather complex, which includes shock wave, expan-
sion wave, boundary layer and wake. Fig. 23 is
NPLS image of the flow field and the corresponding
density field measured by NPLS_DT. Compared
with the results obtained by schlieren, the shock
waves in NPLS image is much thinner. The reason
is that the spatial resolution of the NPLS is much
higher than that of schlieren. The density field in
Fig. 23 shows clearly the existence of flow struc-
tures mentioned above, and the transition of bound-
ary layer.
of supersonic mixing layer in this plane, which is
quite valuable for constructing compressible turbu-
lent models.
The NPLS technique has been widely used to
study other important problems of supetsonic mixing
layer, including the velocity field of the transition
process, the turbulent structure with unmatched
pressure, the fractal characteristics of the mixing
interface, and the multi-resolution analysis of the
density field!!!" 118,
图 21 超声速混合层K-H涡的NPLS图像
(图像闭的时间间隔为108)
3 Conclusions
From the results mentioned above, we can find
that NPLS is a powerful tool to visualize the fine
structures of supersonic turbulence and measure the
corresponding instantaneous density and velocity
field. A great number of experiments have been
performed, and several important flow structures
have been revealed by NPLS images. As a newly
developed technique, however, NPLS and its appli-
cation are still under development.
Currently, the measurement region of NPLS is
only the scattering plane of laser pulse,and the
temporal-resolved images are restricted to the pair
obtained by frame, which prevents it from giving a
more complete description of the flow structure.
We are now updating the crucial components of the
system to overcome these limitations, including em-
ploying multi-cavity laser to achieve high repetition
frequency (hundreds of millions per second), em-
ploying proper CCD with very high recording speed
and the synchronizer with accuracy of picosecond.
Our ultimate goal is to synchronously measure sev-
eral parameters (including density, velocity) of su-
per flow with temporal correlation across many
frames.
