基于改进粗糙集的机场智能电网报警处理方法
针对机场智能电网复杂易变的拓扑结构以及起飞环境因素对信号传输稳定性的影响．在深入分析现有机场智能电网报警信息的基础上，为了提高智能电网报警系统的处理速度和准确性．提出了基于基因算法的改进粗糙集的约简算法．同时应用结构优化思想，实现了在较少信息的条件下迅速准确获得报警信息的处理结果。重点分析了如何构造适当的目标函数、惩罚因子以及惩罚函数形成适应值函数．对粗糙集约简算法进行了修正。经仿真检验，基于基因算法的改进粗糙集约简算法可以快速地完成属性约简，对机场智能电网完成迅速、准确地报警有很好的效果。

机场智能电网 报警处理 粗糙集 基因算法 约简  

INTRODUCTION
During the early study of the numerical solu-
tion methods for partial differential equations
(PDE), Cartesian grid is utilized as a common
tool to discretize the physical domain. This kind
of grid is regular and it has no issues associated
with grid skewness and distortion, therefore, it is
very popular with many researchers!), However,
when dealing with complex configurations, Carte-
sian grid lines usually cross the physical boundary
while do not fit the body, so it is difficult to im-
plement the boundary condition in this kind of
gird method directly. To simplify the treatment
of the boundary condition, structured grid is then
proposed. This kind of method transforms the
physical body-fitted grid to regular grid in the
Foundation items: Supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (11172134); the Funding of Jiangsu
Innovation Program for Graduate Education (CXZZ11_0192); the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu
Higher Education Institutions.
Received date; 2013-04-20; revision received date: 2013-07-10
Corresponding author:Chen Hongquan, Professor, E-mail
computational domain and then solves the gover-
ning equations in the computational domain.
However, the transformed equations in the com-
putational domain are usually much more compli-
cated than the original ones in the physical do-
main.
Recently, a new type of numerical method
called gridless method has been proposed[,This
method is capable of directly estimating the deriv-
atives without transforming the problem from
physical domain to computational domain. It is
simple and flexible,because only a set of points
are required to be distributed in the physical do-
main without considering the connectives among
these points. However, when this method is ap-
plied to deal with different configurations, even if
there is only a little change between the configu-
:hgchenam@nuaa. edu. cn.
rations, all of the points have to be redistributed
once again, and this redundant work probably
slows down the computational speed and results
in low efficiency.
To overcome the difficulty of Cartesian grid
implementing the physical boundary condition and
to avoid the redundant work of point redistribu-
tion for gridless method, we proposed a hybrid
ered by a base Cartesian grid and only a few of
clouds are introduced into the adjacent region of
the physical boundary. Because of Cartesian
grid「s regularity and simplicity, the computing
time for generating grid is almost negligible and
numerical schemes are easy to be implemented on
the grid, and the local gridless treatment tech-
nique only requires a small amount of clouds to be
introduced to represent the configuration. There-
fore, the hybrid method not only reduces the re-
dundant work, but also provides the flexibility to
handle arbitrary configurations. The proposed
hybrid method has been used to solve Euler equa-
tions, and the inviscid flows over the bump, cyl-
inder and airfoils are successfully simulated re-
spectively,
In this paper, the hybrid Cartesian grid/grid-
less method is further developed to simulate vis-
cous flows over multi-element airfoils, In order to
simulate the thin boundary layer of the viscous
flows, the cloud of anisotropic points is imple-
mented in the local gridless region. A cloud over-
lap-free procedure is proposed, which enables the
hybrid method to handle close-coupled bodies in-
cluding multi-element airfoils conciderded in this
trol the quality of the clouds at the vicinity of the
interface between the grid and the gridless re-
gion. The resulting hybrid method is applied to
solve two-dimensional compressible Navier-
Stokes (NS) equations. The viscous flow over a
RAE2822 airfoil is first simulated, and the nu-
merical result obtained is compared with the a-
vailable experimental data, then the viscous flow
over a two-element airfoil is simulated, which
demonstrates the ability of the present method for
treating more complicated flows over multi
bodies.
1 GOVERNING EQUATIONS
The governing equations of this study are the
compressible NS equations in Cartesian coordi-
nates,which can be written as
where 体 is the vector of conservative variables, E
and F are the convective flux terms, Ey and Fy
the viscous flux terms
邓 二 [p, pu, gv, gE"
]…`=〔K〕'墟，ou’+p,puv,t云了
Ey =[0, Tor 9 Tyg 3 e.]"
Fy =[o, Tay? Tyy 9 e,]"
where p, p, E, H are the density, the pressure,
the total energy per unit mass, the total enthalpy
per unit mass, respectively, x and v the cartesian
components of the velocity vector, r is the viscous
stress and @ the term describing the work of vis-
cous stresses and the heat conduction in the fluid.
The laminar viscosity coefficient pu requiring the
calculation of Ey and Fy is computed with the
Sutherland formular0 and the turbulence viscosity
coefficient pr 1s obtained from the Spalart-Allma-
ras turbulence model’, The NS equations are
represent the Reynolds number and Mach number
of the free stream.
2 DECOMPOSITION OF COMPU-
TATIONAL DOMAIN
The entire flow domain is decomposed into
two types of sub-domains, one is discretized by
Cartesian grid and the other is filled with clouds
of points, as shown in Fig. 1. First, the surfaces
of the aerodynamic bodies are broken into edges
for a full description. Then, the unit normal vec-
tor of all the points on the surfaces are calculated,
and new points are produced along the normal
vectors layer to layer until a user specifies the
number of layers. The neighbors of any point in
the gridless zone can be easily defined since these
points are generated in the above regular manner.
When two or more bodies are closely coupled in
the domain, for example, the main element and
the flap of GA (W)-1 two-element airfoil in
Fig. 1, their gridless zones overlap. The overlap
region can be deleted by determing the distances
between the point and each body. It can be easily
noted that the point spacing normal to the wall
can be controlled during the generation of the
gridless zones by the user simulating the bounda-
ry layer. The remaining part of the flow domain
is discretized by an unstructured Cartesian grid u-
sing the adaptive refinement technidquer1,
Fig. 1 Points and Cartesian grid around GA(W)-1 airfoil
As both Cartesian grid and gridless clouds
are used to discretize the flow field, these two
different regions need to exchange the flow infor-
mation in order to obtain the physical solution. If
the interpolation technique is adopted to exchange
the flow information, truncation error may be
caused especially in the vicinity of critical flow
features such as the shock waves. In this paper,
we follow our previous work! to use dual points
method for exchanging flow information, which
means the first two layers of the Cartesian points
near the gridless region(the square points in Fig.
2 are selected and considered for gridless zone
computations, and the satellite points of these
dual points can be found using point-selection
strategiest? ,as shown in Fig. 2.
OF GOVERNING EQUATIONS
For gridless method, the spatial derivatives
of any quantities are evaluated with linear combi-
nations of certain coefficients and the quantities in
the cloud of points. For example, in the cloud of
points C(i》 shown in Fig. 2, the first spatial de-
rivatives of function f at point ￠ are evaluated
with the following linear combination forms!”
where m is the number of satellite points in the
cloud of C(i,and 丰 the value at the midpoint
between points 5 and &、The coefficients ax and Ba
can be obtained with a weighted least-squares
curve fit to the following linear equation
了二a十阡十cy(4)
On the Cartesian grid, suppose h; is the
space step along x and y axes at point i, then the
first spatial derivatives of function f at point 〖 can
be computed using the central difference scheme
蓁.'魉=.f、[】…夏戛-爽`薯`翼′，言_董`丨芝=.〕Z`趸T`】',工-/、趸S(王翼)〉
where fig, fiws fis? fan are the values at the
midpoints between points ￠ and its neighboring pi-
onts in the east, the west, the south and the
north directions.
If Eq. (3) is applied to the convective flux of
the NS equations, the following expression can be
obtained
The numerical flux Ga at the midpoint be-
tween points 5 and can be obtained by using
Roe「s approximate Riemann solver
where A are the flux Jacobian matrices of G. The
conservative variables at the midpoint are recon-
structed with
where 口 秤 is the gradient of the conservative var-
employed to prevent nonlinear instability].
The viscous terms of the NS equations are e-
valuated using Eq. (3) at each point
The first derivative at the midpoint between
points f and is obtained witht"
略-晓-
where Az, Ay, and As’ are given as
Ar 二 Zk 一 Ziy, 人 y 二 Y8 一 Yi, As? = Ax’ + Ay?
(11D)
After the spatial discretization, the semi-dis-
cretization form of the NS equations at point 5 can
be expressed as
彗亘`′叠/~痉十]蓁{=O(12)
where R; represents the residual error at point i.
In order to obtain the steady solution, an explicit
five-stage Runge-Kutta time integration schems is
used
`/`/〈O) ― w￠ 7)
砂 口 =W?? ― 4 AR?D
12 一 一 vy5 (13
础c+D一体(
where the superscript n denotes the current time lev-
el, m the internal step and n+ 1 the next new time
level. The factor a, can be found in Ref. [4].
4 NUMERICAL RESULTS
To evaluate the accuracy of the presented hy-
brid method, the transonic viscous flow over a
RAE2822 airfoil is first considered. The points
and the used Cartesian grid are shown in Fig. 3.
The total number of points is 23 866 with 310
points on the airfoil. The point spacing normal to
the airfoil surface is 1. 0X10 7°. The density con-
tours of the flow field obtained with Ma=0, 73,
a=2.79°,Re=6, 5 10° are shown in Fig. 4. We
can find that the contours change smoothly at the
interface. The pressure coefficient ￠, and friction
coefficient Ct distributions on the airfoil surface
are compared with the experimental data in
Ref. [8] in Fig. 5, which indicates good agree-
ment between the numerical results and the ex-
perimental data, From the residual history pres-
ented in Fig. 6, the hybrid method has a reasona-
ble convergence character. Then the viscous flow
over a GA(W)-1 airfoil is simulated. The points
and the used Cartesian grid has been shown in
Fig. 1. The total number of points is 29 768 with
250 points on the main element surface and 190
points on the flap surface. The density contours
Fig. 3 Points and Cartesian grid around RAE2822 air-
foil
Fig. 4 Density contours around RAE2822 airfoil
of the flow field obtained with Ma=0. 21,a 一 10“ ,Re
=2.3X10° are shown in Fig. 7. The ￠, distributions
on the airfoil surface are compared with the experi-
mental data in Fig. 8, which indicates a good agree-
ment between the numerical result and the experi-
mental data again.
Fig.5 “ce and ￠ distributions around RAE2822 airfoil
The hybrid Cartesian grid/gridless method is
successfully developed to simulate viscous flows
Fig. 8 ￠, distribution around GA(W)-1 airfoil
over single and multi-element airfoils. The un-
structured Cartesian grid can decompose the com-
putational domain easily and efficiently,and the
cloud of anisotropic points implemented in the ar-
ea adjacent to the body can capture the boundary
layer as accurately as the shock wave close.
