基于月面单幅图像的软着陆障碍识别与安全区选取方法
针对月球软着陆自主避障的需求,提出了一种适合月球灰尘表面的改进优化Hapke模型,给出了相对高程的求解、障碍识别与安全区选取方法,解决了已有纹理法无法识别坡度的问题,实现了利用单幅图像的月面着陆障碍识别与安全区域选取.利用月球软着陆下降段仿真图像,进行了模型解算和三维高程恢复并计算安全区域,结果表明,利用月面单幅图像能够实现障碍的识别与安全区的选取.

障碍识别 灰度重构形状 朗伯体模型 Hapke模型  

of the flow potential on void volume fraction. The region
modeled is a small portion of a larger body under vari-
ous stress conditions. Both plane strain and axisymmet-
ric deformations are considered with imposed periodic
boundary conditions. It was found that interactions be-
tween regions with higher void fractions promote plastic
flow localization into a band. and that local failure occurs
via void growth and coalescence within the band. The re-
sults of this study suggested a failure criterion based on
a critical void volume fraction that is only weakly depen-
dent on stress history. The critical void fraction depends
effect of strain hardening and rate sensitivity on the dy-
namic growth of a void in a plastic material and pointed
out that the inertial effect, hardening effect, loading rate
effect can significantly influence the void growth. The
damage models, the Rice-Tracey model and the Gurson-
Leblond-Perrin model, were analyzed. Four coalescence
simulation, were comparatively studied. Ellipsoidal void
growth and void interaction were accounted for. As far as
extending the Gurson model to void shape effects and the
Thomason scheme for the onset of void coalescence. Each
of these was extended heuristically to account for strain
the flow properties of the material and the dimensional
ratios of the void-cell representative volume element. It
schemes to obtain a detailed understanding of the in-
terrelated physical mechanisms which can result in duc-
tile material failure in rate-dependent porous crystalline
materials subjected to finite inelastic deformations. Re-
sults of this study are consistent with experimental ob-
servations that ductile failure can occur either due to
void growth parallel to the stress axis, which results in
void coalescence normal to the stress axis. or void inter-
action along bands, which are characterized by intense
shear-strain localization and that intersect the free sur-
multiple void interaction, Zohdi et al. [12] discussed the
plastic flow in porous material.
Currently, most of the studies on cavity/void growth
are focused on their relevance on macroscopic behaviors
damage is generally modeled by an internal variable. The
internal variable is defined by the variation of some me-
chanical behavior and is not dynamically relevant to the
help understand some mechanisms from the atomic scale,
but the temporal and spatial scales it can access are too
mechanics. In this method. the continuum bodies are dis-
cretized with N material particles. Each material parti-
cle carries the information of position, velocity, temper-
ature, mass, density, Cauchy stress, strain tensor and all
other internal state variables necessary for the constitu-
tive model. At each time step, calculations consist of two
parts: a Lagrangian part and an Eulerian one. Firstly,
the material particles flow with the body, and is used to
determine the strain increment, and the stresses in the
sequel. Then, the velocity field is mapped from the par-
ticles to the Eulerian mesh nodes. The spatial derivatives
are calculated and the momentum equation is integrated.
not only takes advantages of both the Lagrangian and
Eulerian algorithms but avoids their drawbacks as well.
Since using Eulerian background grid, it is more stable
less smooth particle hydrodynamics (SPH) [29].
continuum medium description and designing of contact
force. It has been extensively used to simulate the com-
and evolution of defect structures such as cavities and
cracks in the scales of micron and larger. Such investiga-
tions may present indicative results for improving phys-
ical modeling of fracture in larger scales. From the sim-
ulation side, in the MP method the continuous portion
and the cavities are considered separately. So, it is con-
venient to set the particular structures according to our
need and convenient to obtain the concrete information
on the shapes, sizes, connectivity of relevant structures
and their influences on surrounding materials. In other
words, it is convenient to recover with more fidelity the
physical processes of damage and failure. Simulation re-
sults may work as theoretical bases for the physical mod-
eling of damnification. Different from the phenomenolog-
ical quasistatic analysis, the MP simulation results con-
tain intrinsically the inertial effects.
2 Theoretical model of the material
We assume that the material follows an associative
von Mises plasticity model with linear kinematic and
e is generally decomposed as e = e? + eP, where e? and
ep are the traceless elastic and plastic components, re-
spectively. The material shows a linear elastic response
until the von Mises yield criterion is reached. The yield
where oy is the initial yield stress and Harden the hard-
ening coeflicient. The deviatoric stress s is related to the
where Py, Via and Ey are pressure, specific volume and
energy on the Rankine-Hugoniot curve, respectively. The
relation between Py and Vi can be written as
sion and the plastic work contribute to the increasing
of temperature. The temperature increment from shock
compression is calculated by
is 300 K.
interpretation
3.1 Global scenario
In our simulations the body of aluminum material with
cavity is connected with a rigid wall fixed at the bot-
with cavity starts to move upward at the velocity Ux0.
工 hus, the rarefaction wave or tensile wave occurs at the
plane with 2 = 0. The rarefaction wave propagates up-
wards within the material body. In our MP simulations,
the mesh size is 1 um and the diameter of the material
particle is 0.5 pm. Periodic boundary conditions are used
in the horizontal directions and free boundary condition
is used in the upper surface of the material body. The
of contact surfaces is needed in the MP simulations.
Figure 1 shows the snapshots of configurations with v,
to the times = 0.8 ns, 1.2 ns, 2.0 ns and 3.0 ns, respec-
should be commented that if decrease the mesh unit, the
body size can be simulated becomes smaller. We have
ulated one.
With increasing of upward stress on the top of the cav-
ity, the accelerations and velocities of particles within
tinues to move toward the upper free surface. The third
is that the maximum velocity between the valley and the
cavity continues to increase. At the same time, the re-
gion with maximum downward particle velocity moves
sults for the case with single cavity are also indicative
for interaction of neighboring cavities. From the pressure
field, it is clear that the negative pressures within regions
cavity, the deformation of the cavity is still controlled by
the tensile loading. Below, we discuss the pressure dis-
tributions within the material at two times, 9 ns and 11
―500 MPa and 一 550 MPa, respectively. Figure 3 shows
that the contours around the cavities for pressure lower
than 一 300 MPa are connected. The neighboring cavities
get interaction via the connection of pressure contours.
At the time 9 ns, there is still no positive pressure occur
among the neighboring cavities. Figure 4 shows various
pressure contours at the time 11 ns. The contours in
the pressure, the corresponding contour moves away
from the cavity and its surface area becomes larger.
MPa, ―100 MPa, ―150 MPa, ―200 MPa, and --250 MPa, respectively.
the pressure, the contour area becomes smaller. Pressure
distribution between the cavity and rigid wall is as below.
There are four regions around the cavity show positive
pressure. The pressure contours for ―100 MPa between
the nearest cavities are connected. The contours for
―150 MPa have a higher connectivity. All contours for
―200 MPa, ―250 MPa, etc. are connected. The pressure
distribution on the top of the cavity is as below. The re-
gion with the highest pressure does not locate above the
The pressure contours in (a)―(f) correspond to 0 MPa, 一 50
cavity but above the middle of neighboring cavities. Since
the rarefaction wave propagates more quickly within the
solid region, the wave firstly arrives at the upper free sur-
face and get reflected. The weaker the negative pressure,
the closer to the upper free surface the corresponding
contour, and the more planar the corresponding contour.
3.2 Morphology versus tensile strength
310 K, 320 K, 330 K and 340 K, respectively. Com-
pared with the dynamical process, the thermal process is
much slower. The temperature and distribution of hot-
spots are mainly determined by the corresponding plastic
work.
Since the rarefaction wave propagates in the sound
speed, all rarefaction waves reach the upper free surface
at the same time. With increasing the tensile strength,
results and the lines are plotted to guide the eyes. The
sizes of the initial tensile velocity 2:0, 100, 200, 400 and
1000, are shown in the legend. The unit is m/s. An en-
larged portion of the curve for yxo0 = 100 m/s is shown
ear growth stage which ends when the global rarefaction
wave arrives at the upper free surface, (iii) slower growth
stage which ends when the reflected compression wave
directions. The points are simulation results and the lines
are plotted to guide the eyes. It is interesting to observe
that the growth in horizontal direction is quicker than
that in vertical direction. Such a mechanism is equiva-
lent to the “necking effect” in macroscale. There exists
also a linear stage in the growths of cavity dimensions.
The growth rates increase with increasing the strength
of tensile loading. Figure 6(c) shows the initial linear
growth rate of cavity volume versus initial strength of
tensile loading ux0. The points are for the slopes of fit-
within the checked range the volume growth rate linearly
increases with the initial tensile velocity vq.
lines in (a) for the first linear growth stage, and the line is for the linear fitting result of the points.
show the corresponding pressure felds. The lower bound-
ary of the cavity gradually becomes planar and parallel
to the rigid wall.
3.3 Energy transformation versus tensile strength
For the case with uniform material, during the tensile
loading, kinetic energy of the material transforms grad-
ually to elastic potential energy and plastic work. Those
energies distribute uniformly in planes parallel to the
rigid wall. Although the material is three-dimensional,
the dynamical and thermodynamical process is in fact
one-dimensional. But for the case with cavities. the sit-
the same two times as in Fig. 7, from which, besides
the cavity morphology, we can understand better the en-
ergy transformation from kinetic to thermal. There is
a high temperature layer surrounding the deformed cav-
ity. That is because the plastic work by the stresses is
pronounced in that region. Figures 8(c) and (d) show
the configurations with v, field at the same two times.
With the reflecting back of compression wave from the
upper free surface, the distribution range of high particle
velocity becomes narrower.
Figure 9 shows the maximum upward particle veloc-
ity,Uzmax,above the cavity and maximum downward
particle velocity, Usmin, below the cavity versus the ini-
tial tensile velocity 2s0. The points are simulation re-
sults and the lines are fitting results. It is interesting
to observe that both s max and |v, min| logarithmically
increase with the initial tensile velocity vg.
4 Conclusions
A three-dimensional material point simulation study on
cavity growth in metal materials subjected to dynamic
loading is conducted. Interactions of rarefaction wave
with an existing cavity and the ultimate interactions
of the cavity with its periodic images are carefully in-
vestigated. During the tensile loading procedure, some
material particles below the cavity show high speeds in
the opposite direction. Within the region subjected to
the global rarefaction wave some local regions may show
positive pressures. Neighboring cavities get interaction
via the coalescence of isobaric contours. The deforma-
tion of cavity under tensile loading shows staged behav-
iors. After the initial slow growth stage, the volume and
the dimensions in both the tensile and transverse direc-
tions show linear growth rate with time until the global
tensile wave reaches the upper free surface. The growth
rate in the tensile direction is slower than that in the
transverse direction. The volume growth rate linearly in-
creases with the initial tensile velocity. After the global
tensile wave passed the cavity, the maximum particle ve-
locity in the tensile direction and the maximum particle
velocity in the opposite direction increase logarithmically
with the initial tensile speed. The shock wave reflected
back from the cavity and compression wave from the free
surface induce the initial behavior of interfacial instabil-
ities such as the Richtmyer-Meshkov instability, which
is mainly responsible for the irregularity of the cavity
morphology. Temperature and distribution of hot spots
are determined by the plastic work. Compared with the
dynamical process, the heat conduction is much slower.
and configurations with v, field [(c) and (d)] at two times,
are simulation results and the lines are logarithmic fitting results.
tion of State Key Laboratory of Explosive Science and Tech-
China (Grant Nos. 11075021 and 11171038).
