基于综合识别的高速飞行器自适应控制方法
针对高速飞行器的传统自适应控制方法中控制器参数获取时间长，辨识存在收敛性的问题，设计了一种基于综合识别方法的新型自校正控制方案。首先，由在线直接可测量构成特征模型的特征状态量，并以特征模型作为参考模型来设计控制器；其次，通过获得的特征状态量来在线调配对象系统的零极点，输出达到期望性能所需要的控制参数。仿真结果表明：该方法能较理想地实现在线自适应控制，保证系统良好的鲁棒性和快速性，同时在工程上易于实现。

高速飞行器 综合识别 特征状态量 在线控制 自适应控制  

Introduction
The research for control system of High Speed Ve-
hicle(HSV ) has some challenges, such as time-varying
parameters, fast response, strong robustness and effec-
tive control etc [11. The traditional adaptive method of
HSV is self-tuning control. It online identify typical
characteristic parameters of the plant, then automati-
cally adjust the control quantity with result obtained.
The application of adaptive controller [2 - 3 has been
widely used due to identifying the parameters of process
automatically, regulating the quantity of controller au-
tomatically, and having adaptability for variable coeffi―
cients. But how to accomplish quickly online identifica―
tion for HSV is a new challenge. To a fast time-varying
process, control system must response quickly and need
short sample period. Online identification can not guar-
antee the real time operation, so it restrict the applica-
tion of adaptive control strategy to be used in the attitude
control system's design. The paper [41 propose an adap―
tive control method base on characteristic model. it have
built a characteristic model 3! on 6-DOF dynamic model
of hypersonic vehicle on glide phase, then design a in-
ner-outer loop adaptive controller base on characteristic
model respectively. The paper 【61 design a feed forward
compensated adaptive controller based on both parame-
ter identification for the state equation and Pole~assign-
ment for maneuvering reentry vehicles control problem
on the condition of large scale fight envelope and hardly
aerodynamic couple. Though those methods all have a
nice simulation result for the control strategy of hyper-
sonic vehicle, the control parameters all need online i-
dentification. For HSV「s control system within a plant of
high-order time~varying property and controller of
complex construct, it increase both time and magnitude
of calculation due to system identification. Furthermore
it's harmful to the control system of HSV which has high
time―sensitivity. '
In this paper, an attitude control method based on
integrated identification strategy was proposed. The
characteristic state variables were consist of measurable
quantity which can be online measured directly without
iteration, and the reference model of self-tuning con-
troller are derived bv characteristic state variables. Then
quantity of controller was calculated by adjusting the
plant's pole-~zero to achieve the ideal performance. The
simulation results improve the effectiveness of this
method.
1 Dynamic Model and Characteris―
tic Model
Refer to the database of NASA Langley research
center 【7,the original model of this paper is
Winged―Coned model. Meanwhile we focus on the atti-
tude control system's design in glide phase of HSV.
and kinematics equations of variable~mass system are
considered as form of constant mass rigid body. Then
motion equations are derived as follow:
where V is the velocity of vehicle, 0 is rotational
angular velocity of ballistic coordinate system relative to
Earth~surface coordinate system ,w, is the Earth's rate
of rotation, w; is rotational angular velocity of body co~
ordinate system relative to translational coordinate sys~
tem, Fis the sum of forces, M is the sum of moments,
X is the position of mass center,r is the position vector
of mass center in the inertial coordinate system, m is the
mass of vehicle, [is inertial tensor, dr Urry Yr are Euler
angle of body coordinate system relative to translational
coordinate system by “3-2-1" order.
. For the attitude control system,angle of attack
(AOA), side slip angle and flight path angle are often
considered to be the control quantities of pitch, yaw and
roll path respectively. In order to design and analysis
control system, the differential equations of these con-
trol quantities should be derived. The characteristic
model would be derived in pitch path for example. There
are steps:
Stepl: Build the angular motion equation of vehi-
cle. Refer to the definition of attitude angular between
different coordinate systems and the equivalence rela~
tionship of rotational angular velocity, two vector equa~-
tions can be derived:
哎 -Cey -CfGlr - 咤 = X Dy + By xQby + Op, X ly
(6)
where T,F,H ,V ,B represent translational coordi-
nate system, launch coordinate system, ballistic coor-
dinate system , velocity coordinate system and body sys―
tem respectively. C represents transformation matrix. w
represents rotational angular velocity between two coor―
dinate system, w is the derivative of angular velocity in
the mapping coordinate system.
Substituting equation (5) and (6) into equation
*109。
(4), the control-oriented differential equation of pitch
path can be obtained:
区 = ―cosa tan Blak, ~(@ha ~wi p cosa) J+
元 (v, cosy, +8 cosy, siny,. )secB -
Step2: Make the Earth's rate of rotation dissociated
from attitude equation obtain:
(置…=_(〉()s(〕【tal]/灵〔(…)〔′盂'_(〔')彗】'(j乙__颤〔)叁…z/室c0S(7乙)工i+(8)
sina tan B| a, ~ (af Bsina- wha) +
〔(三)叁菁z一(〔又)〔3j爵…煊cosC―ob,Bsina)]+
Step3: Consider long-~period motion parameters as
constant on glide phase, neglect high derivative, the e-
quation (8) can be written as
Step4: Note that in the longitudinal motion, the
quantity of lateral motion can be considered too small to
be neglected. Obtain:
(j迂=(!)莒妻z_淳(〔囊)(套j】『cosa―wg,sina)(10)
StepS: Build nominal motion equation, combine
with equation (2),Substitute the expanded formula of
moment and neglect the component of aerodynamic
nonlinear
Where f, is the disturbing force of pitch path.
Step6: According to the nominal equation above,
substitute the linearization reference points ay, 84, and
is defined as :
“110「
lar acceleration due to damping moment with respect to
angular acceleration due to stabilizing moment with re-
spect to disturbing AOA, and it represent the ability of
producing angular acceleration due to per unit disturb-
acceleration due to manipulate moment with respect to
disturbing rudder deflection, and it represent the ability
of producing angular acceleration due to per unit dis-
turbingrudder(](…i1{奇(〕ti0【薹;〔/.)鬟皇′z，(<iz,，′7Z亘'】=，′′2…工贲=arean―
gular velocity of pitch path, rudder deflection, the
derivative of statically stable, damping moment coe 余 -
cient of pitch path and manipulate effectiveness.
dentification
From the characteristic model (equation(12)), we
define characteristic state variables of longitudinal mo~
tion as follow 【
Where a,, is the ratio of stabilizing moment to AOA
and it represents the ability of producing angular accel
eration due to per unit AOA. b, is the ratio of manipulate
moment to rudder deflection, and it represent the ability
of producing angular acceleration due to per unit rudder
deflection.
So, the characteristic model can be written in the
form :
In order to applying the characteristic model to
control law's design process, the procurability problem
of characteristic state quantities must be resolved firstly.
Consider the time-varying character of characteristic
state quantities, the traditional method of parameter i―-
dentification have some problems such as mass data
calculation, parameters for lag, initial value issue and
identifiability of close-loop. If the transient characteris―
tic of system which consist of characteristic state quan-
tities can't be timely response to the controller, the ap-
proach of integrated identification would lost its advan-
tage.
Fig2 Process of integrated identification method
The integrated identification method is based on
measuring characteristic state quantities by sensors
aboard. The main idea of this paper is to use the sensor
to get the information from high order system replacing
the parameter identification method based on principle
of statistics, and to enhance the online rapidity of get
ting characteristic state quantities by increase number
and sort of sensor. The process of this approach is illus-
trated in Figure (2). The key steps of integrated identi
fication method are showed :
Stepl: Sample information from sensors, physical
quantities need to be measured are vector of fight atti-
L 心 [6., 5.17, trajectory state vector I'=[V,H]7, these
quantities are consider to be get in time by sensors.
Step2: The quantities measured are used in the
follow equation:
ment coefficient m, 3 it can be fit as the functional form
consist of measured quantities by according to the char-
acteristic of aerodynamic damp. Function x, = f (a) can
be calculated online.
Step3: Calculate the trim coefficient L = ~a, / b,
from the char acteristic of model we have:
When the sampling period is sufficiently small, it
is assumed that quantities as b , can be neglect. So the
estimating expression of trim coefficient can be derived:
Step4: Calculate the remaining characteristic state
quantities :
So that, all characteristic state quantities have
been obtained.
3 Controller design based on in-
tegrated identification
The approach of integrated identification identify
characteristic state quantities, then obtain characteris―
tic. The output of control quantity by adjusting the de-
sired plant's pole-~zero point is used to achieve the ideal
(3).
Fig 3 The structure of self-tuning controller
be written in form as;
While, the equal two order characteristic equation
of plant is:
Simultaneous equations (19) and (20) obtain the
characteristic gain K,, the characteristic frequency w,
and the characteristic damping &,.
The PD feedback corrector is taken into the control
system, Assume the transfer function is
Where K, is proportional gain coefficient, XK is
differential gain coefficient. The closed-loop transfer
function of corrective circuit can be described as:
Assume the desired frequency, desired damping of
nominal plant is w, and ￡, respectively, obtain
The closed-loop gain of feedback system is
So, the balance coefficient of gain is
Fig 4 Curve of Height and Velocity Fig 5 Curve of AOA Fig 6 Curve of Rudder
5 Conclusions
For the problem of long time to calculate the
quantity for controller and the convergence issue of
identification, we presented an approach of adaptive
control based on integrated identification. It's a valuable
explore to study the online control of HSV ,and apply a
realizable path to implementing adaptive control method.
Characteristic state variables were consist of measurable
quantities which can be measured directly online,and
the reference model of the self-tuning controller were
derived by characteristic state variables quickly by
avoiding iteration and convergence issue. This method
can retain the control characteristic of nominal plant by
parameter self-tuning inner circuit, furthermore, the
logic of inner circuit is simple, physical signification is
clear and it's implemented easily.
