基于大数据的知识挖掘技术在航天领域应用展望
近年来，中国运载火箭技术研究院开展了知识梳理、知识采集、知识分类等多项工作，形成了专业分类、型号产品等维度的知识库，不断积累、完善的知识库势必在航天产品研制过程中发挥重要作用。知识库的利用程度依赖于知识挖掘技术，尤其在航天产品研制过程中的知识挖掘，涉及多专业、多部门、多领域。

知识挖掘技术 航天领域 中国运载火箭技术研究院 展望 应用 研制过程 航天产品 知识库  

In pursuit of the latest Minidrones competition
issued by the French Aerospace Lab ONERA “Office
National d'Etudes et de Recherches Aérospatiales”, the
ULBs (Université Libre de Bruxelle) decided to
continue the development and optimization of the
ducted fan MAV (micro air vehicle) (Fig. 1), that was
built for this competition and for which VTOL (vertical
take-off and landing) capabilities and autonomous flight
were mandatory. To counter the torque on the fuselage
due to the main rotor, several solutions have been
developed. The classical solution, which has proven its
effectiveness through good control yaw with low
power, is installing a tail rotor on the helicopter (95%
of the helicopters are equipped with this system [1]).
Although the ULB MAV appears similar to other
ducted-rotor concepts such as iStar [2], Cypher [3],
Hovereye [4], T-Hawk [5], it fundamentally differs
from these platforms in that it uses the downwash of a
single rotor to compensate the motor torque and
achieve control around the roll, pitch and yaw axes.
In helicopter type MAVs, the rotor is driven by a
motor that transmits the torque to the main rotor axis.
The torque Cr (in Nm) is calculated as Eq. (1):
where, Pg is the power transmitted to the rotor (in W )
and ? is the rotation speed of the rotor (in radian per
The main rotor applies a torque of the same intensity
but opposite sign on the structure of the helicopter
MAV. If you do not stop this effect, a yaw moment
appears and the MAV begins to turn on itself in the
opposite direction. 〈
Several solutions are possible to stabilize the
MAY in yaw. The choice of the anti-torque system
depends strongly on the configuration of the MAV and
Fig. 1 The ducted fan MAV of ULB.
610 A Ducted Fan MAV Anti-torque Control System
the application for which it is intended.
The more common solution used is a rotor placed at
the rear of the helicopter called a tail rotor. This rotor,
placed at the end of a lever arm of length L, rotates in a
plane perpendicular to the main rotor. It provides a
pushing force Fy (perpendicular to the plane of
symmetry of the helicopter) such that
However, the presence of a tail rotor is often a source
of accidents and uses extra power. Furthermore, in our
case, the MAV is ducted. And in forward flight, the
duct may provide some lift when the UAV (unmanned
aerial vehicle) is tilted. What we call “airplane mode”
is not at all compatible with a tail rotor. These
disadvantages means that this solution is often
excluded for ducted MAYV.
The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents
the most common configurations used on ducted fan
UAVs; Section 3 presents the general layout; Section 4
explains the control system; Section 5 presents the duct
design; Section 6 presents the propeller; Section 7
shows the anti-torque blades; Section 8 gives
conclusions.
2. State of the Art
Different ducted fan UAVs have emerged since the
late twentieth century until today. The technologies
used on these vehicles are constantly changing from
year to year. In the early 1980s, the second generation
AROD (Airborne Remotely Operated Device) project
was launched (the first being a ducted quadrirotor that
are not presented here) as part of a monitoring program
organized by the U.S. Navy, and was continued in the
program demonstration of advanced technologies
organized by the Gaters. The development of AROD
was stopped due to lack of funding.
Sykorsky Aircraft Corporation continued to work on
shrouded rotary-wing UAV to finally get the Cypher
UAV (Fig. 2), whose first flight took place in April 21,
1992. The UAV took off and landed successfully on
three occasions and made a first flight stationary
T-Hawk
Fig. 2 Different ducted fan UAVs which emerged over the
last two decades.
stabilized at a height of 1.2 m. The Cypher UAV is
equipped with two counter-rotating coaxial rotors (Fig.
3). This appears very interesting because it offers better
performance in stationary flight and completely
eliminates any problem of stabilization in yaw. This
limits, however, the directional maneuverability of the
aircraft and confers bad behavior in horizontal flight. In
addition, a safety distance must be provided to prevent
contact between the two rotors during flight operations.
This obviously increases the height of the helicopter in
no small way.
After a couple of years, the iStar of Allied Aerospace
(Fig. 2) made its first flight during the month of
October in 2000. One month later, it already showed
some flight performance at high speed through a large
change in its pitch angle.
The iStar was equipped with a fixed stator having
eight blades and mounted inside the duct below the
rotor (Fig. 4). The angle of incidence of the blades was
fixed to produce the maximal force to counter the
torque produced by the engine. All the control of the
UAYV was assured by a quadrant of vanes placed just
after the stator in the rotor flux.
In July 2003, Aurora announced their first successful
flight with the UAV-Goldeneye 100. Its successor
A Ducted Fan MAV Anti-torque Control System 611
Cypher UAV.
T-Hawk UAV.
versions 50 and 80 completed their first flights,
respectively in July 2004 and June 2006. First
autonomous transition from vertical to horizontal flight
ofGoldeneye-50 was performed in April 2005 (Fig. 2).
The Goldeneye was equipped with a fixed stator
inside the duct below the rotor as the iStar. But the full
control of the UAV is provided using fins located
outside of the duct.
In the beginning of the new millennium, engineers
worldwide were very prolific in this area. In the U.S.,
the Honeywell developed until June 2002, in
collaboration with DARPA (Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency), their Kestrel UAV.
In 2004, in the month of November, Bertin
Technologies revealed the Hovereye UAV (Fig. 2) and
BAE Systems developed their OAV (organic air
vehicle). The Hovereye is equipped with two
counter-rotating coaxial fixed pitch rotors. The two
rotors were the same and eliminate the effect of the
torque supplied by the motor on the supporting
structure. There is therefore no longer a need for an
anti-torque system and the internal flow should not be
straightened.
The same year, Honeywell developed a derivative of
the iStar: the T-Hawk (Fig. 2) that demonstrated its
capabilities during stabilized flight tests in Bourges,
France in March 2005. Despite the elimination of their
previous UAV program of DARPA OAV in 2004,
BAE Systems put in place, one year later, a new UAV:
the BAE60. The stator (Fig. 4) is used to straighten the
swirling flow of air created by the propeller in the duct
and to offset some of the torque transmitted by the
engine to the UAV. This allows using a single rotor
without having to make excessive control with control
vanes of the UAV. It consists of 12 twisted blades
whose angle of attack increases from the duct to the
central fuselage.
Companies are not the only ones in the race. In 2006,
J.-L. Naudin, a French researcher and experimenter,
showed some performance with the Schauberger flying
disc in which operation is based on the Coanda effect.
The Fantail Singapore Technology Aerospace Ltd.
UAV (Fig. 2) made a first flight in July 2006. Already
the same year in December, the first autonomous flight
took place.
To enable control during hover and low speed flight,
all control airfoils used in the fantail are placed in the
flow produced by the rotor (Fig. 5). The yaw control is
done using six fins with variable angle of attack in the
flow placed directly below the rotor. They are placed as
close to the duct to maximize the lever arm and
consequently the moment they produce. They counter
the torque transmitted by the rotor to the rigid structure
of the UAV. The roll and pitch are controlled through
two pairs of housings, each consisting of five control
surfaces, and located at the end of tail in order to
maximize the authority of the control.
In order to avoid coupling between the two control
stages, the housings are located in the inner part of the
flow (closest to the central axis of the UAV); while the
yaw fins are located in the outer part of the flow (as far
as possible from the central axis).
After traveling all the history of ducted fan UAVs,
we can conclude that there are different solutions to
control the yaw:
612 A Ducted Fan MAV Anti-torque Control System
Fig. 5 The control vanes of the fantail UAV.
e Two counter-rotating coaxial rotors with fixed
pitch;
Two counter-rotating coaxial rotors with variable
pitch (cyclic and collective);
A twisted stator placed in the flow produced by
the rotor:
A fixed pitch non-twisted stator placed in the flow
produced by the rotor;
e A non-twisted stator with variable angle of attack
placed in the flow produced by the rotor.
For comparison with each other and choosing the
optimal anti-torque system for our configuration, it is
interesting to establish criteria for comparisons. We
chose as criteria:
e Power consumption: Indeed, the rotating propeller
in the duct is subjected to a drag force that contributes
negatively to the power consumption of the UAV. It is
necessary to take it into account and it is a disadvantage
for the two coaxial rotors;
s The general layout: In fact, if a mechanism is
needed for the anti-torque system, it requires
maintenance costs and adds complexity to the complete
design of the UAV;
The control: A judicious choice of the anti-torque
system would decouple the yaw control from pitch and
roll control. It significantly facilitates the UAV flight
control.
In light of this, we have chosen a non-twisted stator
with variable camber. It will be detailed in the
corresponding section.
3. General Layout
Fig. 6 shows a cutaway view of the MAV unveiling
its major components. The rotor is mounted on a
permanent magnet brushless motor fixed in a solid
ABS (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene) housing made
Fig. 6 A cutaway view of the ULB MAV.
via rapid prototyping. On this block, the flight control
systems and payload are mounted, as well as a
protective shell forming the centre fuselage and duct
suspension rods. Each rod is bolted in an ABS housing,
clamped between two carbon fiber rings. These rings
assure structural rigidity while offering sufficient space
in between to install the LiPo (lithium-polymer)
batteries. A carbon fiber skirt forms the duct and is
fixed on plastic ribs having the requested duct
aerodynamic profile. Note that most components are
actually off-the-shelf components in order to reduce
cost and development time.
4. Control
After the rotor, there are two stages to control the
MAY (Fig. 7). To enable control during hover and low
speed flight, all control vanes used on the MAV are
placed in the flow produced by the rotor into the duct.
Yaw control is achieved by the first stage. Named
stator composed of four variable camber blades of
which the primary function, is the compensation of
motor torque. These “anti-torque” blades are installed
in the duct at a predetermined angle with respect to the
vertical axis of symmetry, producing a lift force and
thus torque commensurate with rotor rotational speed
￡,. This allows using a single rotor without having to
make excessive control with control vanes of the UAV
A Ducted Fan MAV Anti-torque Control System 613
Fig. 7 The two-stage control of the ULB MAV.
and definitively separates the yaw control from the rol
and pitch control.
Roll and pitch control (or lateral and longitudinal
control) is provided by the second stage. A quadrant
composed of two pairs of housings installed below the
anti-torque blades. Each housing contains two blades.
One pair ofhousings have a rotation axis in the vertical
plane containing the longitudinal control axis of the
MAV; and another pair have a rotation axe in the
vertical plane through the platform’s lateral control
axis. This configuration eases the flight control
algorithms by avoiding cross-coupling effects between
pitch and roll. The blades have variable angle of
incidence and are directly positioned by servomotors
installed in the centre fuselage.
In this paper, we will shine the light on the first stage
with anti-torque blades. For this, we need to study the
aerodynamic interactions between the anti-torque
blades, the duct and the rotor in wind tunnel tests and in
CFD (computational fluid dynamics) with some simple
program such as Xfoil, Xrotor and DFDC or a more
powerful program such as FINE/TurboTM.
5. Duct
The duct design is inspired by two NACA (the
forerunner to NASA) studies [6, 7] in the ducted fan
domain. The duct is composed of three parts:
e A toroidal part;
￠ A cylindrical part;
e A divergent part.
Fig. 8 represents a section view of the duct where
you can easily see the three parts. The maximum value
Fig. 8 Cross section of the duct.
for the rotor is fixed at 40 cm and the maximum height
is fixed at 30 cm to have a UAV that is compact and
with a great MTOW (maximum take-off weight).
5.1 Toroidal Part
The air intake is toroidal. This air inlet performs better
than the classic airfoils leading edge at low angles
between the plane of the disc rotor and wind speed,
between 90° and 45°. In addition, the study of NACA
has demonstrated its effectiveness and this geometry is
easy to implement. The study of NACA showed that
the ideal value of the torus radius (rzp) is given using
the following relation:
a stall appears on the surface of the air intake, causing a
loss of the lift provided by the duct. In contrast, the
coefficient of merit does not increase for higher values.
5.2 Cylindrical Part
The accelerated air in the air inlet area then passes
through a constant section in which the rotor is placed
and the first control stage (the stator). This section
serves also to support the stator blades.
In this way, the accelerated flow does not directly
meet the adverse pressure gradient and is first
straightened by the stator. Also, the space between the
blade and the shroud is constant.
The result of Eq. (3) and the UAV maximum size set
the maximum allowable duct diameter. The maximum
diameter ofthe duct, at the air inlet, is
D, + 4 x (0.06 D,) = 49.6 cm 4)
614 ' A Ducted Fan MAV Anti-torque Control System
3.3 Divergent Part
The flow then passes through a diverging part with a
linear slope so as to maximize the air mass flow by
slowing the flow. The opening degree of the cone can
significantly increase the performance of the UAV
until the adverse pressure gradient is too high and
causes the stall. In reality, the parameter quantifying
the performance of the UAV is the ratio between the
section of the rotor and the lower section of the duct: z
It depends on the total height of the diffuser and its
opening angle.
Studies have shown that a ratio around 1.2 was
optimum.
In our case, considering a diffuser height of about
220 mm, this means a slope in the diffuser of 6° and
therefore an opening angle of the cone of 12°.
The outer face of the duct consists of a curve tangent
to the torus and showing no discontinuity.
5.4 Partial Conclusions
The shroud protects the relative wind of the rotor to
reduce the negative lift on it. The UAV is more robust
and can eventually be caught with hands in hover
without risk.
The relationship between the output surface of the
shroud and the area covered by the rotor is greater than
one and therefore gives rise to a diverging duct. This
divergence limits the contraction of the air tube at the
exit of the rotor and thus increases the available thrust.
Also, the proximity of the blade tip to the fairing
eliminates edge effects and therefore reduces the
losses.
We clearly see in Fig. 9 (extracted from wind tunnel
tests) that the duct behaves like an airplane wing.
Indeed, the shape of the curve Cu(a) is the same as for a
wing. Moreover, the stall zone of the duct that is to
around 15° without rotor is shifted around 40° with the
rotor.
6. Propeller
Actually, the propeller is a conventional model aircraft
′。薯蠢兰蓦′〉32薹马噱摹鏖e.羹′5蠡H瞒FR“玟『〉、′′`-"}′一.`二蓦戛
Angle of attack (*)
Fig. 9 Influence of rotor on total duct lift coefficient.
propeller built by the German company Menz in beech
wood. It would have been better to optimize the
propeller and build a specific one for this MAV.
However, due to time constraints and to continue with
the overall design, we currently use the most
appropriate off-the-shelf propeller on the prototype and
the numerical calculations.
cm in diameter present on the market, the propeller
chosen is the one which provided the biggest lift with
the least power consumption, so the Menz Propeller
16/8. This propeller gives a thrust of 45 N with the duct
(and 35 N without the duct). To obtain an accurate 3D
model of this propeller (Fig. 10), a 3D scan was
performed and we clearly observe on the 3D model that
the airfoil of the propeller is a Clarck Y and we can
easily obtain the polar of this profile with Xfoil (Fig. 11).
Xfoil is an MIT program created by Mark Drela that
is used to design and to analyze subsonic isolated
airfoils [8].
The polar curves are used to determine the
characteristics of a profile and are useful for comparing
the profiles with each other rather than defining their
accurate performance because they have not always
been precisely established (e.g., in our case, the polar
are numerically calculated).
We can deduce from the polar curves the following
points, seen in Fig. 12:
A Ducted Fan MAV Anti-torque Control System 615
propeller.
1.5
numbers (from Xfoil).
Fig. 12 Characteristic points deduced from the polar curve
for Re = 100,000.
e Point A: point of zero lift at the intersection of the
polar axis and the Cd This provided us the zero lift
drag;
sPoint B: point of minimum drag, determined with
the vertical tangent to the curve;
s Point C: point of maximum sharpness, determined
with the tangent to the curve that passes through the
origin, the point at which one has the greatest ratio
CJC;
e Point D: point of minimum falling speed
determined by calculating the minimum of (CA/CP);
s Point E: point of maximum lift, determined with
the horizontal tangent to the curve;
s Point F: stall point.
All these characteristics of the propeller are used to
perform the numerical calculations.
Two curves are shown in Fig. 13 corresponding to
two different configurations, distinguished by the tip
gap. This tip gap represents the distance between the
end of the propeller and the duct and greatly influences
the performance of the rotor, both in terms of sound
and energy. The calculations were performed for a
distance of 8 mm and 1 mm. The presence of this gap
between the rotor and the shroud is a source of energy
loss. Recirculation is formed between the upper and
lower surface, and causes the appearance of vortices.
The losses caused by them decrease simultaneously
with the tip gap decreases.
Indeed, if this distance is reduced, the intensity of the
blade tip vortex and losses associated with the vorticity
are increased. According to Refs. [9-11], the ideal
distance is less than 1% of the rotor radius, in our case
less than 2 mm.
7. Anti-torque Blades
In order to properly size the anti-torque system, it is
critical to know the direction of flow at the output of
the rotor (Fig. 14).
The graph shows that our propeller causes a large
change in the angle of incidence of the airflow induced
by the rotor (of about 15° between the tip of the blade
and the hub), which would cause stall in some locations
on the stator and would indicate that the flow of
incoming air on the second stage is very disturbed. We
have no aerodynamic knowledge on the quadrant of
vanes and therefore no information about the possible
impact of a disrupted airflow over it. Nevertheless, one
can anticipate that the impact will be negative on the
control of the UAV. Optimizing the rotor by providing
an appropriate twist would be a solution for this
problem.
616 A Ducted Fan MAV Anti-torque Control System
the anti-torque blades.
The stator is provided with four blades with a
symmetric profile NACA0012. Placed directly in the
rotor flow, a lift is created on the fins, thus inducing a
torque around the axis of rotation of the rotor, the yaw
axis of the UAV. The role of the stator is to provide a
control on this axis. The other use of the anti-torque
blades is the connection between the central duct and
the fuselage and the stiffening of the whole structure.
So it is necessary to have a fixed part on the blades. The
blades are provided with movable trailing edge flaps
(Fig. 15). The flaps can change the camber of the wing
in order to change the intensity of the moment created
by the stator around the axis. It is set in motion by way
of a servomotor, placed in a housing specially provided
for this purpose in the engine block.
Several parameters are to be discussed.
flaps.
First, the choice of the profile is a determining factor.
On the prototype, after comparing different profiles,
we chose a symmetric profile, the NACA0012. Even if
they produce less lift than some non-symmetric
profiles, they have no pitching moment. This is
significant with regard to the difficult control in pitch
and roll.
The second parameter to take into account is the
pitch angle. For different flight situations, stabilizing
yaw must be guaranteed and we have determined the
velocity distribution at the exit of the rotor by
numerical simulations. The numerical results show that
an angle of incidence between 5° and 10° seems the
most appropriate. Due to movable trailing edge flaps,
the blades can produce a lift force commensurate with
rotor rotational speed ￡2, to exactly compensate the
torque and allow the use of a single rotor without
having to make excessive regulation with control vanes
of the UAV and definitively separates the yaw control
of the roll and pitch control.
Finally, we must pay attention to the chord and the
number of blades. We only know that the intensity
provided by the anti-torque system increases with the
chord and the number of blades. It is appropriate to
limit the interference flow between the blades
themselves, but also for the control blades situated
downstream. The latter provide stability in pitch and
roll. The number ofanti-torque blades will therefore be
A Ducted Fan MAV Anti-torque Control System 617
a compromise. It was set at four on the assembled
model. Concerning the chord, the limiting factor is the
total height of the duct that should not become too large.
The blades must have the smallest chord possible while
still being able to compensate for the torque. We have
chosen a chord of 8 cm with a 2 cm trailing edge flap.
Note moreover that the anti-torque blades also cancel
the effect of vorticity due to rotation of the propeller.
Thus, after the stator, the flow is no longer swirling.
8. Conclusions
After the first version of the ULB-designed MAY
was built, the first flight tests took place. Many
attempts were undertaken, leading to the first
controlled flight of the MAV on May 8, 2010.
Initially, a single off-the-shelf gyroscope for yaw
control was used. Tests have shown that the control
vanes were effective enough to allow the UAV to move
in the horizontal plane. But it is impossible to control
the UAV with high-level orders. However, the yaw
control works perfectly, which validates the
effectiveness of the stators with variable camber.
Two identical off-the-shelf gyroscopes have been
added in the center fuselage in order to stabilize the
UAV on its three axes. Stabilized as well, the UAV
could take off and reach an altitude of 3-4 m. It is very
difficult to control the UAV in this configuration in
flight because the gyroscopes operate in open loop. In
order to improve the stability of the UAV and to be able
to control it with the radio control, we should add a
control loop on each gyroscope.
From full-scale wind tunnel tests, one recorded the
aerodynamic forces and moments of a ducted rotor
MAV and this for several free stream wind speed
magnitudes and angles of attack. Although the
measurements were affected by varying systematic
errors, post-treatment still allowed establishing
reasonable speed, power and endurance envelopes.
Nevertheless, future wind tunnel tests will be required
using a more suited acquisition system, which will
remove some doubtful results necessary to complete
assessment of the flight envelope.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to recognize and thank Frank
Buysschaert, Jérome Sans, Frédérique Pomirski, Matthew
Peavy and Greg Dimitriadis for their support and help.
A part of this work was realized in the frame of the
research project SARAH-LE that is funded by the
DGO6. Our special thanks to this organization of
Wallonia.
