抛物化 Navier-Stokes 方程（PNS）和高氏 PNS 理论及其应用的评述
抛物化 NS 方程得到广泛应用，已经成为工业标准气动计算的基础。现有的八种抛物化 NS 方程有不同的名称，方程中粘性项的形式略有不同，其中的 PNS 和薄层（TL）NS 方程应用最多。但是这些方程都具有类似的数学性质，例如，当流向方向上马赫数大于1时，他们都是抛物型方程，可以采用空间推进算法（SMA）进行求解。与采用时间推进算法求解的 NS 方程或雷诺平均（RA）NS 方程相比，PNS-SMA 计算降低了空间的维数，节省了大量的存储空间和 CPU 计算时间。PNS-SMA 算法也获得了巨大的进展。但是，早期 PNS 研究在理论上是相当模糊的，高智在1990年提出的粘性／无粘干扰剪切流理论（ISF）弥补了这一不足。ISF 理论概括了 PNS 方程所能描述的基本流动，提出了其流动的运动规律及数学定义式，所导出的 ISF 方程组也属于 PNS 方程的一种。为了不增加新的名称，我们将 ISF 方程组也称为高氏 PNS 理论和方程组。这一理论在 NS 方程和RANS 方程的计算中均有重要的应用。例如，计算最优坐标系的选择以减少伪扩散，网格尺度选择及局部网格加密设计以捕捉高超声速流动中物体表面热流等的急剧变化，壁面压力边界条件的选择以及由高 PNS 导出的壁面判据来进行 NS 和 RANS 近壁数值解可信度评估。本文评述了一些初步的应用，进一步的应用和综合 PNS-SMA，RANS-SMA 以及 PSE-SMA 计算值得深入研究，这里 PSE指抛物化稳定性方程。

抛物化NS方程 空间推进算法 粘性/无粘干扰剪切流动 高氏PNS理论  

0 Introduction
The NS equations proposed in 1845 are very diffi-
cult to solve in their complete form. It’s always the goal
of viscous fluid dynamics to search a simplified and
accuracy enough solution for NS equations. In 1904,
Prandtl proposed boundary layer theory which provided
such a decisive simplification of the NS equations and
opened up a new area of fluid dynamics!’ From 1930’
s to the 1960’ s various special second-order correc-
tions[231 , interacting boundary layers"! and higher-
order boundary-layer 出e盯y… was developed in order to
take viscous/inviscid interacting into consideration.
From 1960 s, numerous authors from America!?? ,
Russiar“ China"! nearly contemporaneously inde-
pendently developed and used some other approximate
equations for solving viscous flow problems which are
nearly boundary-layer type, but due to the physics of the
problem being considered, include some additional
effects either in the boundary conditions or the equations
themselves. These different approximate equations with
different slightly viscous terms have often been called
“parabolized“,“thin layer”, “reduced” NS equations
or “ISF” equations for obvious reasons. In the paper we
simply call these classes of equations as PNS equations
although it is somewhat a misnomer,since the equations
are actually a mixed set of hyperbolic parabolic elliptical
equations, provided that certain conditions are met.
Amounts of numerical simulation shown that solu-
tion of PNS equations were closed to solution of full NS
equation for flows without large separation. Also, for
high Re number flows, if the solution of full NS equation
were taken based on a set of coarse mesh, because of
real physical viscous being covered by numerical vis-
cous, the final solution are not numerical result of full
NS equation but numerical result of another set of
reduced NS equations, such as PNS equations’. On
the other hand, because strong viscous region only is
existing in shear layer and region near the wall surface
and most of the rest region were dominated by non-viscid
flows, simple PNS equations will be enough to describe
high Re viscous flows instead of full NS equations 21.
A set of PNS equations is of theoretical value in es-
tablishing Prandtl’ s approximation as the basis of an
asympototic solution of the NS equations for large Re
number. It may also be of practical value. “The PNS
method is in very wider spread use; indeed, it forms the
basis of an industry-standard computer program ,which
is used by virtually all major aerodynamic laboratories
and companies.” as Anderson pointed in his mono-
graph!!. Furthermore, the development of such a tech-
nique requires the examination of the fundamental ( as-
ymptotic) structure of the flowfield which leads not only
to the determination of the correct approximate equations
to use but also to the scale laws which set the mesh sizes
for accurate numerical computations. This information is
necessary even if one wishes to efficiently solve the full
NS equations.
For a significant class of asymptotic approximations
to the complete NS equations, PNS equations would
have correctly accounted for viscous-inviscid flow inter-
acting mechanism and opened a new approach for simu-
tion 1. A kind of PNS equations, ISF theory, proposed
independentiy by Chinese author is presented in section
2. Section 3 will show that some inferences of ISF theory
such as wall-surface criteria formulas and new pressure
boundary conditions derived from ISF equations also
have important value to CFD application. Some conclu-
sions are finallv drawn in section 4,
1 A brief review of PNS equations
1.1 Different form and mathematical properties of
PNS equations
The derivation of PNS equations from the complete
Navier-Stokes equations is, in general, not as rigorous
as the derivation of the boundary-layer equations. Because
of this, slightly different versions of the PNS equations
have appeared in the literature. These versions differ in
some cases because of the type of flow problem being
considered. However, in all cases the normal pressure
gradient term is retained, and the second derivative
terms with respect to the streamwise direction are omit-
ted.
As Pletcher classified!" , there are several sets of
equations that fall within this class, such as parabolized
Navier-Stokes ( PNS) equations'?'*’ , reduced Navier-
Stokes ( RNS ) equations ,partially parabolized Navier-
Stokes (PPNS) equations, viscous shock-layer ( VSL)
equations, conical Navier-Stokes (CNS) equations, and
thin-layer Navier-Stokes (TLNS) equations.
The most common form of PNS equations" is
obtained by assuming that the streamwise viscous deriva-
tive terms are of 0(1 ) while the normal and transverse
viscous derivative terms are of ()(/…(署羞′/2〉. Hence these
PNS equations are derived by simply dropping all vis-
Note that in these equations a parameter w has
been inserted in front of the streamwise pressure gradient
term in the x momentum equation. Thus if w is set equal
to zero, the streamwise pressure gradient term is omit-
ted. On the other hand, if w is set equal to 1 the term
is retained completely.
The mathematical property of PNS equations had
been studied by many authors. Detail characteristic
the streamwise pressure gradient is retained completely
(i.e. , @w =1), only when local streamwise Mach num-
ber Mx>1 an initial-boundary value hypothesis of PNS
equations is well-posed, i. e. PNS equations can be
solved numerically by space marching algorithm ( SMA)
along the x-direction, while when Mx <1, an initial-
boundary value hypothesis is ill-posed. But if only a
fraction of the streamwise pressure gradient is retained
called the RNS (…(Il】融1ti0【lS)〔2_]. The RNS equations are
derived from the complete unsteady Navier-Stokes equa-
tions by dropping the streamwise viscous terms ,omitting
the viscous terms in the normal momentum equation ,
derivative terms are also omitted.
张oP+趴-张2)
ax dx dy dy
components of the pressure gradient term.
For supersonic flows with embedded “ elliptic “
regions, the global pressure relaxation procedure can be
used to solve the RNS equations. For subsonic flows, if
PNS equations are solved without making simplifying
approximations regarding the pressure, the equations are
only partially parabolized, leading to the terminology
PPNS.
The PPNS system remains elliptic overall because
of the influence of the pressure field. In developing the
PPNS model from the Navier Stokes equations, only cer-
tain diffusion processes are neglected, and no assump-
tions are made about the pressure. The PPNS model has
| also been referred to as the semi-elliptic or RNS formu-
lation in the literature. PPNS may be regarded as a
specified name of PNS for subsonic flows. The solution
and skin friction could be obtained by solving the
unsteady NS equations on the unit sphere with all deriv-
atives in the radial direction set equal to zero byAnder-
s()【l〔1…,].
The thin-layer Navier-Stokes equations were
obtained upon simplifying the complete NS equations
using the thin-layer approximation which was arisen from
a detailed examination of typical high Re number compu-
tations involving the full NS equation by Baldwin and
Lomax'*!. Thin-layer approximation can also be used
into PNS equations. The typical resulting TNLS equa-
tions can be seen in many literatures[2.“1、The TLNS
equations are a mixed set of hyperbolic-parabolic PDEs
in time.
All kinds of PNS equations can extend to turbulent
flows using similar approximation to obtain simplified
parabolized Reynolds Averages Naiver-Stokes ( PRANS )
equations.
1.2 Numerical solution of PNS equations
PNS computational techniques are the most key of
PNS and also basic reason of PNS becomes the basis of
industry-standard aerodynamic computations. For the
PNS system, streamwise 6 diffusion terms are neglected ,
or with other higher order diffusion terms are treated as
an explicit deferred corrector. This formulation reduces
to a single sweep or initial value PNS method ,whenever
the negative flux contributions due to acoustic and con-
vective upstream influence can be uniformly neglected.
This proceduce is very computer efficient. If the nega-
tive flux terms are important and retained ,an alternative
formulation to conventional characteristic-based flux
differencing results. This procedure is applicable for in-
compressible to hypersonic flows and allows for upstream
in literatures" 18, 20] *
In recent years ,PNS algorithms were focus on how
to increase convergence speed and how to deal with large
reverse-flow regions or subsonic-flow regions, and their
extending to non/structure grids. One method is using a
space-marching scheme solving the PNS equations until
an elliptic/reverse-flow region is encountered, then
switching to a global iteration method for the length of
the elliptic region, iterating until convergence is
reached, and pursuing with the marching PNS scheme.
However, such a strategy forces the solution of the PNS
equations in certain regions of the flow field, for which
the PNS assumption might induce appreciable errors.
The accuracy of the final solution is hence strongly
dependent on the ability of the method to predict cor-
rectly different flow regions. Another approach, named
“active domain,” to solving inviscid supersonic flow
with embedded subsonic regions has been proposed. The
method consists of performing pseudo-time iterations on
a small bandlike computational domain that advances in
the streamwise direction every time the residual of the
active domain near the upstream boundary falls below a
user-defined threshold. Using sensors based on the stre-
amwise components of the Mach number, the active-
domain boundaries automatically surround any locally
subsonic region on which sufficient iterations are per-
formed to reach steady state. When the residual inside
the subsonic region decreases below the user-defined
threshold, the active domain advances past the subsonic
region further downstream. By marching in the stream-
wise direction, the active domain results in up to a 10-
fold decrease in work compared to standard pseudo-time-
marching methods for several inviscid problems. However,
streamwise separated flows was developed. The mare-
hing window performs localized pseudo-time stepping on
a sub-domain composed of a sequence of cross-stream
planes of nodes. The width of the marching window
decreases to only a few planes in regions of quasihyper-
bolic flow and increases to the size. of the streamwise-
elliptic region when encountered. However, the marc-
hing window is strictly a convergence acceleration tech-
nique, as it guarantees that the residual of all nodes will
be below the user-defined threshold when convergence is
attained. This is accomplished by keeping the residual
upstream of the marching-window sub-domain updated at
all times, and by positioning the upstream boundary
such that the residual of all nodes upstream is below the
user-defined threshold. This results in an algorithm that
captures all upstream propagating waves affecting the re-
sidual significantly. The upstream propagating waves
can originate from (but are not necessarily limited to)
large subsonic pockets, streamwise separation, ,stream-
wise viscous fluxes, or flux limiters in the streamwise
.convection flux derivative, for instance.
1.3 Applications of PNS and its’ fluid theory
The PNS method has been widely utilized in virtu-
ally all major aerodynamic laboratories and companies
for many cases including perfect gas flows,chemically
reaction flows[2“1 and magneto-hydrodynamic ( MHD)
flow [201 , etc. There are several ( more than ten) space
PNSI1 NASA UPS", IMPNS"*', TORPEDO"
and SSPNSIC51! | codes by He'?!. Many research about
PNS method are focus on the instability, speed, effi-
ciency, application scope of space marching algorithm
but few literatures talk about fluid basic theory of PNS.
several typical flows, such as (a) Leading edge of a flat
plate in a hypersonic rarefied flow. 《 b Mixing layer
with a strong transverse pressure gradient. 《c) Blunt body
in a supersonic flow at high altitude. (d) Flow along a
streamwise corner (e) Flow in rectangular channals、Stag-
nation point flow or oblique incidence stagnation point flow
and multi-layer ( Triple-deck) flow with its outside invis-
cid flow have also been proved applicable to PNS theory.
A PNS’ s basic fluid theory, viscous/inviscid inter-
acting shear flow 《 ISF theory, was suggested by
Gao!” and it may furnishes complete answer to the sub-
ject in last paragraph. ISF consists of viscous shear flow
and its neighboring outer inviscid flow ,which interact
on each other.. The equations governing ISF are just
kind of PNS equations. ISF theory forms basic fluid
theory for PNS equations and it also makes a break-
through the beyond the classical boundary layer theory.
Furthermore, some novel inferences were derived based
on ISF theory and they have some important applications
to CFD, such as application of ISF s optimal coordi-
nates to grid design, application of length scaling laws of
ISF’ s viscous layer to grid design, using small scale
structure given by the scaling-laws to explain and cap-
ture sudden changes of physical quantities like pressure
of heat flux on body surface which are called “unknown-
unknown” for hypersonic flow by Bertin and Cum-
ming「38] | application of wall-surface-criteria for laminar
flow, perturbed flow and turbulent flow to verify credita-
bilities of NS and RANS numerical solutions and to opti-
mize turbulent models ete.
2 ISF theory and its inferences
The motion-law, maybe the core hypothesis, of
mula (3) and (4) does not hold. There is always a di-
viding-flow-surface in ISF’ s viscous layer [so] , especial-
ly, the wall surface is a dividing-flow-surface of viscous
flow close neighbour wall surface. f=(u,v,T), u and ?
are velocity components in the x- and y- directions, re-
spectively. T is the temperature, A=v if f=u and v, A
=k if f=T, v is the kinematics viscous coefficient, , is
the thermal conductivity.
Using the definition (3) and (4) to simplify com-
plete NS equations, we can deduce the ISF equations,
that is for two-dimension compressible flow
If we compare ISF equations with PNS equations in-
troduced before,we「 山 find that they are in the same
forms. It implied that ISF equations are one type of PNS
equations. But different from PNS equations, ISF equa-
tions go further more in theory analysis and deduced
many useful inferences,just like boundary layer theory
generate much more excellent theory results.
2.1 Inference 1: The evolution physical scales of
ISF’ s viscous layer
Scaling-laws of velocity and length of ISF s viscous
layer were examined by Gao'*!. The physical scales of
3-D incompressible flow can be expresses generally as:
can be compared with u, when g = 0 ISF expresses the
stagnation flow or the classical boundary-layer flow and
its neighbouring outer in-viscid flow, between which
there is no interaction; when g = 1/4 the ISF’s viscous
layer is just the lower deck of the well-known triple-deck
theory'*'! ,in this case ISF express flow in neighbour-
hood of separation point or reattachment point or tail-
edge point or leading edge point or small step, hump,
dents and chinks on wall surface etc. when g = 1/2 the
length scales and velocity scales of ISF’ s viscous layer
are the same in all directions, i. e. an isotropic viscous
flow. Therefore, the interacting parameter Q is essentially a
measure of strength of viscous/inviscid interaction. In
addition, if the effects of the Mach number or say com-
pressibility are not neglected, we can deduce further the
scaling-laws of the density and temperature, adding
which to know scaling-laws. It should be pointed out
that the evolution laws of physical scales (10) also suit-
able to free ISF, for which there is less study.
ISF can express some typical flows mentioned
above. The whole viscous/inviscid interacting flow in
the neighbourhood of wall surface is obviously a complex
ISF, whose governing equations are diffusion parabolized
equations written in a fitted body orthogonal coordinates,
which is just a fitted dividing flow surface orthogonal
coordinates or say the complex ISF’s optimal coordinates.
2.2 Inference 2 Dividing flow surface criteria
In ISF s viscous shear layer there is always a di-
Two important special cases of dividing flow surface
criteria (12) and (13) are wall-surface criteria ( WSC)
for viscous flow and inviscid flow near the wall. This two
WSC are respectively
And
where WMC and WEC are wall momentum criteria and
wall energy criteria, respectively. They can be used to
verify creditability of numerical simulations for viscous
flow or inviscid flow near wall surface.
It should be pointed that ISF theory and its infer-
ences can also be extended into perturbed flow and tur-
bulent flow. Both interacting shear perturbed flow
( ISPE ) theory and interacting shear turbulent flow
(ISTF) theory were also suggested by Gao’. As space
is limited, ISPE, ISTF and their inferences can be ref-
erenced in literatures (asl In order to uniform the
name, ISPE can also be called parobolized stability
equation (PSE). ISTF can be called parabolized Reyn-
olds average NS ( PRANS). Both PSE, PRANS equa-
tions and their theories,that are closely related PNS and
its theory, will be review in future.
direction and 31. 6 times in flow direction than before
interaction(g=0) if ￠=1/4.
It is known that to date there no very convincing
numerical results of using ISF’ s scaling laws to compute
sudden increase of local heating rates etc. However, we
ought to pay highly attention to thus computations for
sudden change phenomena. This is because that some
flight accidents, such as the damage of the rocket-
powered X-15 when its flight velocity reached Mach 6.7
in 1967 and the demise of the space shuttle Columbia
during its re-entry from orbit in 2003. These accidents
show that how severe the aero-thermodynamic environ-
ment is for a vehicle which is travelling at hypersonic
speeds and that how fragile the vehicles that fly through
these environments can be. Analysis about mentioned
above flight accidents making Bertin and (〕llmmi【】gs〔二攫霉薯]
giving the following conclusions: “These locally severe,
critical heating rates or unexpected deviations to the
force and moments acting on the vehicle often occur due
to viscous/inviscid interactions. These critical environ-
ments are the result of “unknown-unknown “ or “ got-
chas’”.
In fact, the scaling-laws of ISF s viscous layer
have illustrated the mechanism of the sudden change
phenomena of heating rates etc. and offered a way to
compute locally sudden change or at least a roughly
order of magnitude estimate of them.
3.2 Application of optimal ISF s coordinates to
guide grid design
For computations of ISF and flow near wall surface ,
an optimal grid should be an orthogonal grid with grid-
line paralleling with the coordinate axes of ISF’ s optimal
coordinates. One example is to compute two-dimensional
occurring in flow field computed, we ought to use ISF’s
optimal grid each individual,such as a base free ISF
between base circulatory flow and outer inviscid flow and
turbulent flows, Kolmogorov scale is an important refer-
ence scale to choosing grid size. For boundary layer
flow ,thickness of boundary layer maybe a reference
length. However, for an ordinary computation of Navier-
Stokes equations, there was no definite method or stand-
ard to choosing grid size in the past. Obviously, the
length scaling-laws given by ISF’ s theory would be a
definite method to determine an appropriate mesh size,
that have been proved tentatively by two sets of computa-
tion solving NS 〔妻(]u辜】lti0nS〔4薹蕙].
An analysis for the numerical results of hypersonic
flows over both an asymptotic hollows cylinder extended
flare( HCEF ) and a sharp double cone ( SDC) shows
that in this two examples the better numerical solutions
can be obtained( refer to Fig. 5-11 ) when the grid sizes
in both streamwise and normal directions are directly
chosen as 1/10 of the length scale with g=1/4 (see for-
mula(《10)and(《11) ) that can avoid refining repeated-
ly grid for seeking the best grid size. It should be em-
phasize on the importance of both ISF’ s optimal coordi-
nates and the length scaling-law of ISF’ s viscous layer
to grid design. Just as Schlichting and Gerstin pointed
out in their m0【l0g薹"毛l薹)l′l[′`(〕] : “Numerical methods in com-
puting flows at high Reynolds numbers only become effi-
cient if the particular layered structure of the flow, as
given by the asymptotic theory, is taken into account, as
occurs if a suitable grid is used for computation. ”
Obviously ,ISF theory shows further that numerical
computations of high Re number flow only become effi-
cient if the thin-layered structure in all directions, given
by ISF theory, is taken into account, as occur if a suit-
able grid with grid-lines paralleling the coordinate axes
Fig.6 Pressure coefficient for HCEF,Run 8
Fig.7 Stanton number for HCEF, Run 8
Fig.8 Detail of Fig. 6 around separation point
FHig. 10 Pressure coefficient for Run 28 over SDC
FHig. 11 Stanton number for Run 28 over SDC
of ISF「 s optimal coordinates and with grid-refined local-
ly according to the length scale of the small-scale struc-
ture in ISF’ s viscous layer is used for computations.
3.4 Application of the wall-surface criteria to veri-
fy creditability of NS numerical solutions
The existence and uniqueness of the solution of NS
equations have not been proved. So we have to face to
an always confused problem--is it worth to trust the
results from computer codes? If it does,how much can
we trust it? Verification and validation of computing
results become a very important work. The dividing flow
surface criteria and wall surface criteria ( WSC) are
undoubtedly theoretical methods of verifying creditability
of NS numerical solution. Except for WEC, Gao"! had
confirmed that eleven well-known NS exact solutions for
incompressible flow satisfy exactly WSC and that both
the solution of the classical boundary layer and its outer
inviscid flow and the solutions of similar boundary layer
Fig.12 WMC in shock laminar boundary
layer interacting flow
Fig.13 WEC in shock laminar boundary
layer interacting flow
Fig.14 WMC in laminar hypersonic flow over ramp
In a word,we can obtain NS grid independent
solution by operation of NS numerical calculations satis-
fying progressively the wall surface criteria ( WSC ).
Especially, this criteria can evaluate the departure of NS
numerical solutions from NS true solution by just one
time NS calculation on set of grid,which is an outstand-
ing advantage of the WSC method compared with the
grid convergence analysis method in common use, based
method may be used as an ingenious substitute for the
grid convergence analysis method and that the WSC
method and ISF theory would be called Gao’ s criteria
and Gao’ s ISF theory, respectively.
Fig.15 WEC in laminar hypersonic flow over ramp
4 Conclusions
As a class of equations to describe fluid flows ,PNS
D subsonic supersonic/hypersonic viscous flow over a
variety of body shapes or internal viscous flows. Solving
PNS equations forms industry-standard aerodynamic and
aero- thermodynamic computations. The PNS method is
in very widespread use. For PNS methods, attention
should be paid not only on developing space marching
algorithm but also on developing basic PNS theory.
The ISF theory offer a basic fluid theories corre-
sponding to PNS. The ISF equations are one kind of
PNS equations. Some inferences from ISF theory and
their application to CFD are fruitful and creativeness.
Scientific computation of aerodynamic and aerothermody-
namic phenomena does need to integrate well computa-
tion with fluid theory, especially for hypersonic flow
computation.
Acknowledgements: I am very thankful to Prof. Z. Gao for helpful
discussion. Acknowledgement is also made to the support of China Scholar-
ship Council and host of Professor Khellil Sefiane in School of Engineering,
University of Edinburgh.
