探月三期拉开序幕 航天邮品记载辉煌
机载封
2014年11月1日,嫦娥五号T1再入返回飞行试验返回器再入返回地球,多架直升机配合地面单位圆满完成了对返回器进行跟踪、搜索和回收的任务。为此相关单位制作了多种直升机机载纪念封,以示纪念。

探月 航天 返回器 飞行试验 单位圆 直升机 机载 再入  

doi: 10.1016/S1672-6529(14)60019-6
1 Introduction
Since possessing the excellent manoeuvrability and
the aerodynamic performance, the study about the insect
flight can date back to 1500s and has attracted con-
tinuously increasing attention, Different from the ter-
restrial animals using the solid friction to walk on the
land,the insects implement flight by flapping their
wings to generate the thrust and lift from the surrounding
fluids[「2 As compared to the man-made fixed-wing air
vehicle, which is usually propelled by ejecting the
high-speed air from propeller or jet engine, the locomo-
tion of insects is mainly attributed to the reverse Karman
vortex street generated by the flapping wing. Due to the
highly unsteady features of the flow over a flapping
wing, it was not until 1920s that the basic mechanism of
thrust generation was demonstrated by Glauert? via a
classical linear theory about a vertically oscillating wing
in the inviscid flow. Recently, Ellington et al ex-
perimentally observed the intense leading-edge vortex in
the axial flows around the insect wing, which explained
the high lift generated by the insects. By solving the 3D
incompressible laminar Navier- Stokes equations, Liu
and Kawachi addressed the numerical modeling of in-
sect flightFi1 So far, numerous studies have been made
on the insect flight through the numerical simulations
and the experimental measurements’.
When a wing is placed in close proximity to the
ground, higher lift and drop in induced drag would be
produced as compared with the free stream case. This is
known as the Wing In Ground (WIG) effect. The
underlying mechanism is that the pressure on the lower
surface of wing is increased as the wing comes close to
the ground. The WIG effect has been well applied to the
ground effect craft and the racing car. However, the
current study related to the ground effect mainly focuses
on the fixed wing. The works about the ground effect on
the flapping wing are very limited. The first attempt was
conducted by Moryosseft and Levy!" who numerically
investigated the flow field about the vertically oscillat-
ing airfoils near the ground. Both inviscid and viscous
turbulent flow simulations were performed in their study.
When the airfoil is in close proximity to the ground, the
flows are dominated by the viscous effects at the low
reduced frequencies, whereas the inviscid flow behav-
an inverted airfoil in ground effect under the heaving
motion. Three fundamental features, which were de-
pendent on the frequency, were identified: ground effect,
incidence effect and added mass effect. Nevertheless, it
is noted that these works concern about the high Rey-
nolds number flow associated with the turbulent effect.
who examined the ground effect on the insect normal
hovering flight at Reynolds number of 100. They found
that the force behavior could be divided into three typi-
cal regimes according to the ground clearance: force
enhancement, force reduction and force recovery.
In this paper, the ground effect on the flapping in-
sect wing in the forward-flight mode is investigated. To
perform the numerical simulation, the recently devel-
sect wing cross-section, is considered in this work. It
executes a combined motion of harmonic plunge and
pitch rotation. After fixing the Reynolds number and the
amplitude of motion, the influences of two parameters
including the distance between the foil and the ground
together with the frequency of oscillation are examined.
Based on the numerical results, the ground effect of the
flapping wing on the aerodynamic forces and vortex
structures is analyzed. It is expected that the present
study can dig into the mechanism of fluid dynamics for
the flapping Micro Air Vehicles (MAVs) flying near the
ground or the water surface.
2 Description of methodology
described simply. In the framework of IB-LBM, as
shown in Fig. 1, the governing equations for the
Fig. 1 Sketch of embedded body in flow field.
where f, is distribution function and f? is its corre-
sponding equilibrium state, 7 is single relaxation time, Jt
is time step, e, is lattice velocity, w, are coefficients, cs is
sound speed, and fis force density which is determined
result, the force density f would be related to the fluid
velocity correction du, which can be obtained from the
where X ={suy,6u2,,6u}
where m is the number of boundary points, and # is the
number of surrounding Eulerian mesh points. It is noted
that the boundary points are evenly distributed on the
surface of the embedded boundary. Sul (I =12,---,m)
is the unknown boundary velocity correction vector, and
establish the connection between flow field and the em-
bedded boundary. For the moving boundary problem, it is
shown that the use of conventional discrete delta function
may produce non-physical force oscillations. Hence, a
In the above equations, A is the mesh spacing, As, is the
calculated bv
can be obtained. After that, the fluid velocity correction
ou can be calculated by
As shown in Eq. (3), the relationship between the force
density f and the fluid velocity correction du can be
written as f = 2pdu/dt. Similarly, the force on the
boundary point can be computed from
This is the force exerted on the fluid. Its balance is the
hydrodynamic force exerted on the boundary. Addition-
ally, in lattice Boltzmann method the macroscopic
variables are calculated by
where cs 1s the sound speed of lattice model.
3 Problem description and numerical validation
In this study, a classical NACA0012 airfoil is used
to model the flapping wing insect in the forward-flight
mode. The foil is placed in proximity to the ground and
carries out a plunging motion and pitching motion syn-
chronously, which is sketched in Fig. 2. Thus, the gov-
erning equation for the foil motion can be expressed as
where h(D is the distance between the center of foil and
the ground, ho and Am are the mean distance and plung-
ing amplitude, respectively; 6(￠) is the angle of attack of
foil which rotates about its center, 8, and b are the mean
angle of attack and pitching amplitude, respectively.
Moreover, fis the frequency of oscillation and ￠ is the
phase difference between plunge and pitch. Based on the
free stream velocity U and double amplitude of plunge
24m, the Strouhal number, of oscillation can be defined
as St = 2fh/ Us.
To validate the employed IB-LBM for the current
study, the simulation of flapping foil in ground effect at
Re = 150 is carried out. The Reynolds number selected,
Fig. 2 Flow over a flapping foil in ground effect.
0n=r/4, b=0. The Strouhal number St is 0.2 and 0.4. In
this study, the size of computational domain is 30c x 20c.
A non-uniform mesh is used, which is fine and uniform
around the foil. The mesh spacing of uniform mesh is A.
Table 1 lists the time-averaged drag coefficient C,, and
lift coefficient CLwith different mesh spacing A. Here,
the drag and lift coefficients are defined as
where Fp and FL are the drag and lift forces acted on the
flapping foil calculated using Eq. (9). From Table 1, it is
shown that A= 0.01 is fine enough to achieve the accu-
rate results. In order to further validate the current nu-
merical method, the dragonfly flight studied by Wang!’
is also simulated. The wing cross-section is represented
by an ellipse of thickness ratio 0.25. Fig. 3 shows the
Table 1 Parameters of flow over the flapping foil in ground effect
A=0.00625 A=0.01 A=0.0125
Co St=04 0.4101 0.4102 0.4112
Fig. 3 Validation study for force coefficient of dragonfly flight.
that the present results compare well with the data in the
literature. Therefore, the adopted IB-LBM is suitable for
the current investigation.
4 Study of flapping foil in ground effect
After validating the employed numerical method,
we systematically explore the fluid dynamics of the
flapping foil in ground effect at Re = 150. The ampli-
tudes of plunging and pitching motions are fixed at
hm = 0.4c and bm = K/4, respectively. Meanwhile, the
mean angle of attack and the phase difference are chosen
as 外 = 0 and ￠ = 0. Thus, we mainly focus on the dis-
tance between the center of airfoil and the ground and
the motion frequency of flapping foil. The mean distance
is selected in the range of 1 <Ag/c <5. At one selected Ay,
the Strouhal number St varies from 0.1 to 0.5.
4.1 Force behaviors due to ground effect
Firstly, the forces on the flapping foil due to the
ground effect are examined. Fig. 4 plots the mean drag
and lift coefficients against the mean distance at differ-
ent Strouhal number. To make comparison, the situation
out of ground effect is also considered. From Fig. 4, it is
shown that the presence of ground would change the
mean force coefficients to different extent. As the foil is
being departed from the ground, the influence of ground
on force behaviors is weakened gradually. As plotted in
Figs. 4c and 4d, as hy is increased up to Sc, the mean drag
and lift coefficients are approximately the same as those
without ground effect. Hence, it can be roughly assumed
that the ground effect disappears at Ro = Sc. For Cp, it
smoothly decreases as ho increases at low St (= 0.1 and
0.2), as shown in Fig. 4a. At middle St (= 0.3), C, is
nearly unchanged for all fo except a slight decrease
happens at ho = 2c. In contrast to low St, C, gradually
increases with ho at high St (= 0.4 and 0.5). Moreover, it
can also be found from Fig. 4a that by increasing Sf,CoD
would decrease at one selected ho and smallest C, ap-
pears at St = 0.5 and 4, = c. On the other hand, as shown
in Fig. 4b,CL also decreases with ho at low St (= 0.1 and
0.2), which is similar to the variation trend of C,.
However, it still decreases with A, at middle and even
high S￠ (= 0.3 and 0.5). As compared with the situation of
low St, the change of CL becomes gentle. As St is in-
creased up to 0.4, C, first increases and then decreases
when ho becomes larger and larger. Based on the results
56 Journal of Bionic Engineering (2014) Vol.11 No.l
in Fig. 4, it is seen that the ground effect is helpful to the
improvement of the force performance. When the flap-
ping foil is in close proximity to the ground, it can
achieve the reduced mean drag at high frequency or
enhanced mean lift at low frequency.
To further detailedly explore the force behavior of
the flapping foil in ground effect, the typical time histo-
ries of drag and lift coefficients in one flapping period
are illustrated in Fig. 5. For St = 0.1 as shown in Fig. Sa,
there are two peaks of Cp. When hg > c, the first peak of
Cp is almost the same, which is smaller than that at ho = C.
Meanwhile, the second peak value gradually decreases
with Ay. Moreover, it can also be found that the first peak
value is larger than the second one at 4p = c. On the other
hand, only one peak of CL occurs in one flapping cycle.
Similar to Cp, the ground effect on CL is most prominent
at hy = c, which enlarges the peak value. As the fre-
quency increases, plotted in Fig. 5b, two additional
peaks of Cp (called as the secondary peak) can be ob-
served, which are much smaller than the other two peaks
(called as the major peak). The reason is that the fre-
quency of oscillation is higher than the frequency of
vortex shedding. From the figure, it is seen that the first,
second and fourth peaks of Cp for all A are nearly the
same. At the same time, the third peak value is slightly
larger at 0 = c as compared to that at Ao > c. In addition,
when 二 c, the first major peak value becomes smaller
than the second one, which is different from the situation
at 或 = 0.1 (Fig. 5a). For the lift coefficient Cy, there are
three peak values and the time-dependent force coeffi-
cient generally decreases with respect to hp. When the
frequency is increased up to St = 0.5 (Fig. 5c), two en-
hanced secondary peaks of Cp can be found due to the
strengthened the vortex interaction with flapping foil. In
contrast to the above cases, all peaks of Cp are smaller at
ho = c than that at fo > c, especially for two major peak
values. Similarly, the peaks of CL at hy = c are exceeded
by that at sy > c. From the results in Fig. 5, which cor-
responds to the variation trend of the mean force coef-
ficients in Fig. 4, it is noticed that the instantaneous force
coefficient generally experiences a sharp change when
the mean distance increases from hg = cto hy =2c. When
ho continues to increase, the variation becomes smooth.
Hence, it indicates that the ground effect on forces is
more significant when the flapping foil is close to the
ground.
tT
(b) St
Z工
(c) S = 0.5
二 0.3
UT
4.2 Flow patterns due to ground effect
Besides the force behaviors, the flow patterns
would also be altered due to the ground effect. Fig. 6 to
Fig. 8 exhibit the instantaneous vorticity contours under
different Strouhal number. Since the flow patterns show
negligible difference when Ao > 3c, only the results at
ho 二 c and 3c are presented. Moreover, we roughly use
the vorticity distributions at Ro = 3c to approximate the
results out of the ground effect. In these figures, the solid
line means the vorticity with counterclockwise direction
and the dash line is for clockwise direction. As com-
pared to the situation of 0 = 3c drawn in Fig. 7, the
vortex interaction with the ground is very significant at
ho = c (Fig. 6), which would resultantly change the vor-
tex structures in the wake. At low St (= 0.1 and 0.2), the
size of vortex shed from the flapping foil is shortened
due to the presence of ground. However, the strength of
vortices is improved attributed to the vortex interaction
Fig. 6 Instantaneous vorticity
with ground. As St keeps increasing (= 0.3 and 0.4), the
vortex interaction becomes stronger and stronger. It
gradually affects the vortex shedding of the foil. When St
comes to 0.5, it is evident to find that the vortices have
been compressed to be oblate. Consequently, there is a
notable angle between the ground and the center line of
a rotating circular cylinder near a plane wall.
To further dig into the flow characteristics of flap-
ping foil near the ground, it is required to investigate the
flow evolution process. Thus, the mean distance is
chosen as hy = c, and two Strouhal numbers of St = 0.1
and 0.5 are selected. The evolution patterns of the vor-
ticity distribution in one flapping cycle are presented in
Fig. 8. When #T = 0.25, the foil moving downward
reaches the mean position of plunging motion. A
negative vortex is generated from the ground at St = 0.1
(al 又 =0.1
Fig. 8 Evolution process of vorticity distribution in one cycle at ho =c.
(Fig. 8a). At the same time, a positive ground-induced
vortex interacts with a negative vortex shed from the foil
at St = 0.1 (Fig. 8b). In the downstream wake, a negative
ground vortex has already interacted with a positive foil
vortex. When #/T = 0.5, the foil comes to its lowest po-
sition. At this time, for St = 0.1, the ground vortex has
been developed and is trying to interact with the positive
vortex attached to the lower surface of foil. For St = 0.3,
on the other hand, the vortex interaction has completed,
and the resultant vortices are leaving the ground
obliquely. When #/T = 0.75, the foil returns to the mean
position and starts to move upward. The interacted vor-
tices move downstream along the ground at St = 0.1.
(b) St=0.5
Meanwhile, a positive vortex is produced from the
ground at 又 =0.5,and a positive vortex has already shed
from the foil. When Y7= 1, the foil comes to its highest
position. For St = 0.1, there is no vortex interaction. In
the mean time, for St = 0.5, a negative vortex attached to
the upper surface of foil is in close to the ground-induced
vortex. When the time continues, the above process will
repeat. Based on the results in Fig. 8, it is noted that the
introduction of ground affects the vortex shedding
process. The influence would become stronger and
stronger when the oscillating frequency increases, which
would put the vortex away from the ground and cause
the formation of oblate vortices in the wake.
5 Conclusions
In this study, the examination of ground effect on
the flapping insect wing in the forward-flight is carried
out by using the numerical simulation. To model the
motion of insect wing cross-section, a classical
NACA0012 airfoil executing the harmonic plunge as
well as the pitch rotation is adopted. To conduct the
simulation, a recently developed immersed bound-
ary-lattice Boltzmann method is used. After choosing
the Reynolds number as 150 and fixing the amplitude of
motion, we focus on the study of effect of the distance
between the foil and the ground together with the fre-
quency of motion.
Based on the results established. it is found that the
presence of ground affects both the force behaviors and
the flow patterns. When the foil is placed in close
proximity to the ground, the distinct drag reduction and
lift enhancement are obtained as compared to the case
without ground. Moreover, the vortex shed from the foil
interacts with the ground-induced vortex. As the fre-
quency of oscillation increases step by step, the vortex
interaction is strengthened more and more. Accordingly,
the vortices might be compressed to oblate shape and
propagate obliquely in the wake.
Acknowledgement
This work was supported by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China (11302104, 11272153 and
11202203), the Fundamental Research Funds for the
Central Universities (No. NS2012083) and the Priority
Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher
Education Institutions (PAPD).
