控制了太空,就控制了地球――美国欲在太空开辟第四战场
对于生活在地球上的人类来说,外空是无可比拟的战略制高点。它不受地球、国界、天候、地形等因素的影响,在轨道机动能力允许的范围内,卫星、航天器等可以全方位行动,使战争达到真正意义上的灵活和协调,一心争夺世界”领导权”的超级大国当然不会放弃这个制高点。为此,美国军方将注意力转向了太空。

太空 战略制高点 真正意义 领导权 超级大国 地球 国家安全 卫星 机动能力 战场  

INESCAPABLE CHOICES IN RUNAWAY 107
based on Runaway. In this collection, Munro once again depicts the ordinary people in a small place, especially
the women who live the kind of life with pathetic regret and struggle against the tangled light-tragic fate.
Runaway has a common motif, running away form family, betrayal, unexpected children, and other miseries,
and this recurrent motif “runaway” in Munro’s fiction may be derived from “her escape to university as a
scholarship student, against the odds“(Grossman, 2008, p. 649). The heroines in Runaway are the depressed
ordinary women. Once they have a chance, they run away from the boring life, but they are not clear about what
they will run away for and have to come back to the original point, which is their tangled and pathetic living state.
As an experienced and sensitive female writer, Munro does not deliver sermon about the wrong choices
some women may commit, but with brief and plain words depicts what those choices will lead to and how they
lead to, because according to herself, Munro does not mean to surprise the readers with what happened, but how
happened, so Runaway, “there is no resentment, no passion, no intricate plot, and no revelation of wisdom”
(TAN & ZHAO, 2011, p. 52). Munro only depicts the tragic living states of some women in the small places,
about their relationships between husband and wife, parents and children, love affair and marriage, religion and
family and their miseries. Munro shows that in certain phases of a woman, some choices do more harm than good
for her, or they would leave a legacy of trouble and misery, enfolding them in a state or place where they want to
run away from, but could not do anything about it. Thus, through the study of those women’s trivial life and
struggle, this paper will analyse what choice leads them to that tangled states and explore the female living
wisdom to avoid those choices.
The Choice of Religion: Dilemma in Indulgence and Prejudice
Mother and daughter is the most natural and close relationship between females, but sometimes conflicts are
unavoidable. In accordance with Sigmund Freud’s theories, because of youth jealousy and Electra complex, the
conflict and tension between mother and daughter derive from their instinct. Especially, when the conflict is
related to religion, the tension would be fiercer. Mother’
s choice and her guidance for daughter play an important
role in this conflict. As in Munro’s works “the relationship between mother and daughter is feeble and
unresponsive” (LIN, 2006, p. 268) because of the lack
of communication and tolerance between daughter and
mother. In Runaway, the mothers make the extreme choice: indulgence and prejudice in the religious aspect,
which both leads to the broken relationship between mother and daughter.
Sara is Juliet’s mother who gives Juliet total freedom in the choice of religion, and Juliet is the heroine of the
short stories “Chance”, “Soon”, and “Silence”. Sara is a religious lady and believes in faith as “something
wonderful” (Munro, 2006, p. 120), while Juliet does not “believe in Cod’s grace”, which causes the religious
conflict. As they are separated, Sara never teaches Juliet how to respect her own religion and others and indulges
Juliet’s religious views freely developing. Then Sara is severely sick, so Juliet comes home to look after her.
When Minister Don visits Sara in her deathbed, Juliet is
very excited and argued with him about the existence of
God. Disappointed by Juliet’s aggressive rebuttals to the minister, Sara hopes to get Juliet’s respect and
understanding of her faith. However, her former indulgence makes Juliet run away instead of comforting her by
appreciating her faith, which makes Juliet regretted in her rest time for her lack of tolerance and narrow mind.
Sara gives no guidance to Juliet in the establishment of right religious view, but chooses the attitude of
indulgence, which leads to Juliet’s persistency and apathy. Even though at that time Juliet’s own daughter is
108 INESCAPABLE CHOICES IN RUNAWAY
one-year-old, Juliet is still immature in the religious aspect, which dues to her mother’s indulgence without
proper guidance. Sara’s indulgence also foreshadows
the unhappy relationship between Juliet and her own
daughter Penelope.
Different from Sara. Juliet is strict in control of her
daughter’s religious choice, because she learns a lesson
from her mother’s indulgence. However, the similar
tragedy also happens to Juliet, because her daughter
Penelope leaves their family at the age of 13, because of the pursuit of her own faith. As Penelope cannot bear
Juliet’s prejudice in religion, she escapes from her mother and abandons her. Juliet is still not a Christian, and her
role in the family has changed from daughter to mother. Juliet’s strong control in Penelope「s faith causes a
reverse effect, because Juliet’s education and guidance are based on her prejudice against the existence of God.
Once, Penelope is not in the nonreligious home, she is bewitched in religion recklessly. Here it has to admit that,
the outside influence affects the Penelope’s selection in some degree. On the other hand, Juliet is busy in her
“wonderful busy successful life”, she ignores her daughter’s “loneliness and unhappiness” and believes that it is
normal that “most people feel that one time or another” (Munro, 2006, p. 132). Because of Juliet’s prejudice
against the impact of faith, she totally denies the possible comfort from faith. The result is that Penelope inherits
her mother’s apathy and selfishness, and abandons her mother as well.
The repeated tragedy of Juliet’s family for three generations is due to the religious conflict which is not
solved properly. Sara’s tolerance in religion indulges Juliet, while Juliet’s prejudice in faith irritates Penelope. A
witted mother would give her daughter reasonable guidance instead of indulgence or prejudice. Hence, a wise
mother will get rid of the dilemma in indulgence and prejudice about the different choice of religion between
mother and daughter avoiding the potential cause of the
pathetic relationship.
The Choice of Husband: Dilemma in Romance and Insurance
Marriage is an important event and turn in a woman’s life. The romance of love and the insurance of life are
two influential factors in women’s choice of husband,
but love is the essence of a happy marriage. Without
wisdom women are easily lost in the dilemma. In Runaway, Munro provides two extreme attitudes before this
dilemma: negative attitude towards love and positive attitude romance in choosing a husband.
Grace is the heroine of “Passion”, and she has the negative attitude toward love. Grace never makes it clear
whether she loves Neil or she just meets him when she needs marriage. Before Grace goes to Neil「s home and has
diner with his family, she persuades herself that Neil
will be a proper husband for her. Then she feels her
suppressed passions from her hesitance before the wedding. The seduction of Maury, the brother of her fiancé,
tests her and makes her reveal her longing for romance. “Life seems to blur at some unknown moments, for some
people, which is insignificant, but for others, such as Grace, this is a colorful and illuminated moment of her life”
(CHEN, 2010, p. 65). Grace in fact, is dishonest to herself about the issue of love, and she does not recognize her
own passion which is covered by the eagerness for the stability of marriage. Her negative attitude makes her
compromise, because Neil and their family conditions indeed meet the standards of the ideal marriage objects.
Fate does not allow Grace’s “reasonable” choice of marriage. On the way back, Maury was dead of traffic
accident. It is difficult to conclude that Maury’s death is Grace’s responsibility, but Neil and their families will
not accept her any longer. If marriage is only based on the pursuit of insurance, it may be adhered to the tragedy.
Grace’s negative attitude towards the impotence of love
in the marriage leads the relationship between Grace and
INESCAPABLE CHOICES IN RUNAWAY 109
Neil to end without anv result.
Different form Grace’s negative attitudes toward love and positive pursuit of insurance of stability, Robin’s
love is full of fantasy, which makes her lost in the longing for romance. Robin has the positive attitude toward
romance, but negative to the pursuit of love. Robin is the heroine of “Tricks”, apart from her dream of dramatic
romance, before the test of love she withdraws, which may not cause a serious tragedy, but pity. Love also needs
to fight, rather than wait. Robin gives up her love because of the cold shoulder of the Denial’s twin brother who
she regard as Denial himself, which is the dramatic “twins trick” by fate. In “Tricks”, Shakespeare’s “As You
Like It” is a mise-en-abyme romance, but Robin does not have the result. Robin is too infatuated with the
romance in the drama of Shakespeare, making her “even forget about the distance between reality and illusion,
regarding reality as illusion and illusion as reality” (WAN, 2010, p. 137). Robin keeps single without remorse,
while Denial is single too, but it was not Robin’s reason, perhaps he even does not remember the encounter.
Apart from love as the essence of marriage, the longings for romance and coziness are important factors that
influence marriage. The proper degree of romance in
love leads to marriage, and in this aspect Grace is too
negative, while Robin is too positive. “There is an almost surprisingly similar life path for the heroines, which is
their beautiful and basic demand of human nature ending up as a tragedy in the face of harsh reality” (LAI 2011,
p. 26), as both choices of Grace and Robin cause their tragedy.
The Choice of Children: Dilemma in Responsibility and Freedom
For women, another important and serious choice is about children including pregnancy, delivery, and
nurture, and all these are concerned about moral and responsibility. In this short story collection, the birth of
illegitimate children brings trouble and sorrow to both mothers and children, for example the unmarried mothers
Delphine in “Trespasses” and Juliet in “Soon”,
Delphine gives up her responsibility and seeks freedom, when she, as a young unmarried woman, gets
pregnant and gives birth to a girl. The girl is sent to the charitable organization and then she is adopted by a couple.
After 10 years, Delphine is still unmarried and has no child, so she tries to find back her abandoned daughter.
There is no doubt that her abandon brings a great tragedy to that little girl who dies in a car accident at about one
year old. Delphine is a selfish mother and regards her own freedom over others’. She never cares about others’
choice. For example, Lauren mistaken by Delphine as
her little girl is upset and confused by the Delphine’s
appearance, because she makes Lauren suspect whether she has blood tie with her parents or not. Delphine’s
experience is pathetic and she deserves sympathy, but the daughter and her foster parents already may have close
and happy relationship. In “Trespasses”, due to the death of Delphine’s daughter, the combat for daughter is
avoided. Then Delphine pays for the mother’s irresponsibility, which caused by her choice before the dilemma
between freedom and responsibility.
Different from Delphine, Juliet does not give her daughter away as an unmarried mother, and she takes all
the responsibility. However, pathetically her daughter Penelope abandons her at the age of 13. Penelope leaves
her mother because of the difference in religion, but the
fragmentary family also foreshadows her escape. Juliet
respects her own freedom in marriage, so she escapes from the responsibility to build a complete family for her
daughter Penelope. Juliet’s love is not complete for the health growth of Penelope, so she can not stop Penelope
from running away from the incomplete family. On the other hand, Penelope’s father Eric makes little
110 INESCAPABLE CHOICES IN RUNAWAY
contribution in her growth. Eric is also an absolutely unqualified father, because he is married and has mistresses
at the same time, and Juliet is one of his mistresses, which shades in Penelope’s existence. At the same time even
though Juliet gives all her love to Penelope, because of
her busy career and strong religious control she ignores
Penelope’s growth and loneliness, which leads Penelope’s extreme behavior running away from the family.
When Eric’s wife dies, Juliet and Eric do not get married either, and life goes on as before, so Penelope grows up
in such a fragmentary family which brings Penelope miseries.
Responsibility and freedom sometimes are in conflict, so Delphine gives up her daughter, while Juliet fails
in the nursery of her daughter. Even though Juliet takes the responsibility to raise her daughter, still keeps her
freedom in marriage ignoring Penelope’s need for a complete family.
Conclusions
Women’s issues are the problem of dilemma, such as the dilemmas in indulgence and prejudice, romance
and insurance, responsibility and freedom, and so on. Making a proper choice before these dilemmas depends on
the art and wisdom of life. “As a writer, the performance of the universal truth of human life is all about his ideas
and skills of the plot, and the plot shall include a series of actions carried out by the credibility and necessity”, so
in Munro’s Runaway, she did not give an answer about how to choose, she just set out the degree of deviation and
the results that degree leads to, through the plots (Seldon, 2000, p. 37). Women’s issues should be solved as they
appear, or these problems might be passed down to the next generation. Women, as mothers, should accumulate
wisdom, and pass the wisdom on to their daughters. As a
female writer. Munro uses her works as the carrier of her
own female living wisdom to give guidance to women.
