水污染对飞机油液系统影响综述
通过论述油液系统中水污染的来源、特点、危害及水含量的主要测试方法，针对部队实际工作情况，提出几点预防和控制水污染的方法。

水污染 故障诊断 油液监控 预防控制  

1 Introduction
Electric braking system is an irresistible de-
velopment trend of the aircraft braking system at
present. Because of its complicated non-linear be-
havior, the selection of control law is of great im-
portance, which has a bearing on the performance
of the whole system. So according to the features
of the electric braking system, it is necessary to
improve the anti-skid control method of the bra-
king system to achieve the best possible braking
efficiency.
Nowadays,most of the anti-skid control sys-
tems which have been put into use in domestic ap-
ply the sliding velocity control system"! (using
pressure-bias-modulated (PBM)), while several
commercial and military jet aircrafts in Europe
use slip rate control braking system!?. In com-
parison, the efficiency of the sliding velocity con-
trol system is higher’?%, As the theory of control
developing, intelligent control has been more and
more widely applied into practical engineering,
which brings a new idea to design the control law
of aircraft braking system. Some new control the-
ory, like fuzzy control, neural network con-
trolr optimum control’, and nonlinear con-
troll has all been used to design the anti-skid
law.
According to the algorithm of fuzzy-propor-
tional-integral-derivative (PID) control with pa-
rameter self-adjustment feature, the anti-skid law
of the electric braking system is designed in this
paper. At the same time, the braking perform-
ance is simulated in the cases of dry runway and
wet runway to verify the advantages of the elec-
tric braking system, as well as the high efficiency
of the control law.
2 Electric Braking System Based on
Slip Rate Control
The definition of the slip rate is the relative
slippage between the wheel and the road. Its ex-
pression can be shown as follows
where ￠ is the slip rate, v, the heading landing
speed of the aircraft, and ?, the linear velocity of
the wheel.
The slip rate has the greatest influence on
the {friction coefficient. Therefore, the braking
system should control the slip rate on the optimal
value in order to keep the friction coefficient max-
imal and to achieve the highest efficiency of bra-
king.
The aircraft electric braking system contains
five parts below: Electromechanically actuated
(EMA) braking frame, wheel speed sensor and
eter Self-adjustment Feature
3.1 Basic ideas of fuzzy-PID control algorithm
The tuzzy-PID control system with parame-
ter self-adjustment feature! is an adaptive con-
trol system which uses the fuzzy control rule to
modify the PID parameters online. It is able to
realize better dynamic and steady-state perform-
ance for nonlinear time-varying system.
The control signal of the conventional digital
PID adjuster is
where U(%) is the output of PID controller, K, the
proportionality coefficient of the PID controller,
K; the integral coefficient, Kp the differential coeffi-
cient, E(k) the closed-loop deviation, and 己 ( 一 1)
the closed-loop deviation at the last time.
The fuzzy-PID controller applies the fuzzy set
theory to establish the functions of Kp, K,, Kp,
deviation absolute value | E |, and deviation
change 1EC| based on the regular PID.controller ,
its bracket, torque transducer and its bracket,
EMA controller, and B/S controller. The operat-
ing principle is: The signal of wheel speed and
brake torque is transmitted to B/S controller
through the wheel speed sensor and the torque
transducer. The signal generated by B/S control-
ler is then imported to EMA controller,which
will produce control signal to control EMA mech-
anism. This EMA mechanism exports brake
pressure on brake disc to generate the correspond-
ing brake torque. As a result, electric braking
system is the double-negative-feedback closed-
loop control system based on the wheel speed and
the brake torque. Fig. 1 shows its working princi-
ple.
Ki=fi(|E|, | EC |
Ki=f,(|E|, | EC) (3)
Kpo=fi({E|, | EC )
Kr, Kis Kp can be adjusted online according. to
different |E| and | EC].
3.2 Modeling of fuzzy-PID controller with pa-
rameter self-adjustment feature
The model of the fuzzy-PID controller with
parameter self-adjustment feature is established
with MATLAB/SIMULINK. From the above
analysis,the electric braking system contains not
only the velocity feedback, but also the feedback
of brake torque, of which the brake torque is on
the inner loop,and the slip rate is on the outer
loop. The control block diagram of the whole
braking system is shown in Fig. 2.
Due to the double-close-loop control, the
control parts consist of the slip rate and the brake
torque. The design of the fuzzy-PID control above
mainly targets the control of the slip rate. How-
ever, the control of the brake torque uses tradi-
tional PID control method, aiming to generate the
signal to adjust the rotating speed of DC motor
according to the difference of the brake torque be-
tween the input and the actual values,which can
When the aircraft is taxiing on the ground,
the forces on the aircraft are: Gravity, motor
power, aerodynamic force (including lift, drag),
ground reaction force and friction force!'* on the
wheels, and the moment produced by the forces.
The force analysis of airplane movement on the
ground is shown in Fig. 3.
Fig. 3 Force analysis of airplane movement on ground
The external resultant force and the moment
in the ground axis system are
where T is the motor power. D and L are the air
drag and the lift respectively, Q,, Q. the friction
forces to the nose wheel and one of the main
wheel respectively, P,, P, the ground reaction
forces to the nose wheel and one of the main
wheel. G is the gravity, a, the projection distance
between the nose wheel and the gravity center of
the aircraft, a, the projection distance between
the main wheels and the gravity center of the air-
craft, m the weight of the aircraft, Mr the mo-
ment of the motor, I, the moment of inertia of
the aircraft, and 4 the pitch angle.
make the actual brake torque track the target val-
ue. Thus the model of the braking controller of
the electric braking system is established.
king System |
5.1 Model of EMA mechanism
The EMA mechanism is composed of brush-
less DC motor, harmonic reducer and ball
screwril. The inertia moment, the driving mo-
ment and the drag torque of the ball screw are the
important bases in selecting the motor capacity
when. the system is designed.
The load torque of the motor is
′2，`]"[=_/】~/【(′}】___′I「I′(5)
where Ty is the load torque of the motor,wh the
angular acceleration of the ball screw, Ju the ro-
tational inertia, and ITL the part of load torque of
the motor caused by ball screw and drag torque.
The motor drives the ball screw to change
rotational motion to rectilinear motion of the nut,
which will push the pressure plate against the
brake disc. So the formula is
〔三′乏】董〔…=羞(6)
where wh is the rotational speed of the ball screw, 1
the axial displacement of the datum point of the nut.
The revolving speed and current feedback di-
rect current governor system is composed of DC
motor and motor controller, which has nice static
and dynamic performancel’!, The revolving
speed and current close-loops are both adjusted by
PI controller. The voltage and current of the cir-
cuit are shown as
u,(8)一巴一R,(口骠+i)(7)
where T) is the electromagnetic time constant of
armature loop, R, the armature resistance,
E, the counter electromotive force of the motor,
2 (t) the load current, and 工 ,the electro-
mechanical time constant.
The main effect of the brake apparatus is to
change braking thrust into braking torque as well
as to consume the kinetic energy of the aircraft.
The braking thrust S, is in proportion to the
compact distance 〖 approximately, which is
shown as follow
S.=K,l (9
where K, is the proportionality coefficient.
The braking torque can be derived according
to the braking force,shown as
where pn. is the friction coefficient, N,. the
numbers of the friction faces, R, the external ra-
dius of the stators, and r, the internal radius of
the rotors,
However, the brake pair not only usually
suffers deformation during mechanical wear and
temperature variation, but is also required to be
separated after braking thrust relieving. There-
fore, the function relationship between the bra-
king torque and braking thrust has a dead zone.
This function curve can be expressed by tri-linear
hysteresis model. The empirical Eq. (11) is used
when modeling.
an
According to the transfer function of PWM
power electronic converter and the calculation of
the feedback factors, the mathematical model of
the direct current governor system!*! is shown in
Fig. 4.
where M is the largest braking torque, M, the
last braking torque, P, the pressure loss of the
hysteresis,P: the largest pressure lag, P,., the
largest braking thrust, and ?P the last braking
thrust,
5.3 Model of aircraft wheels
When the aircraft is taxiing on the ground ,
there is friction force between the braking wheels
and the ground. The product of this friction force
and the rolling radius of the braking wheels is the
braking torque. The rolling of the wheels is con-
trolled by both the friction torque and the braking
torque which can be expressed as follows
where w and w are the angular velocity and the
angular acceleration. M is the friction torque,
M, the braking torque, J, the rotational inertia of
one wheel, v, the linear velocity of the wheels,
and R, the radius of the wheels.
The factors which affect the friction torque
of the braking wheels include; The vertical load
on the braking wheels,the rolling radius of the
braking wheels, and the friction coefficient be-
tween the tires and the ground. The formula is
shown as
M 一 一 X Rs 二 xs。Pa。Rs,pz (16)
where 伟 is the friction coefficient between the
tires and the ground,P the vertical load on the
main wheels, and z the number of the main tires.
6 Simulation and Analysis
In conclusion, the whole model diagram of the
slip rate electric braking system is shown in Fig, 5.
It is assumed that the aircraft landing veloci-
ty is 72 m/s, and its weight is 56 000 kg. The
model with the electric braking system estab-
lished based on the fuzzy-PID controller with pa-
rameter self-adjustment feature is simulated in
the two cases of dry runway and wet runway by
MATLAB/SIMULINK.
If the control system has the PID-controller
only without the fuzzy-PID controller, the simu-
lation curves in the dry runway case are shown in
Fig. 6. From the simulation results, anti-skid
braking lasts 16. 9 s and the distance of landing
run is 723 m since the brake starts when the wheel
reaches the maximum velocity till the aircraft stops
with the zero speed.
However, if the control system has the electric
anti-skid braking system based on the fuzzy-PID con-
troller with parameter self-adjustment feature, the
simulation curves in the dry runway case are shown in
Fig. 7. During the whole process, the slip rate main-
tains at the best with the value around 0.12 all the
time. The braking efficiency is calculated as 93% ac-
cording to the friction coefficient.
Compared with Fig. 6, the shock of the wheel
velocity, the slip rate and the brake torque converge
to a stable state faster, which indicates that with the
fuzzy-PID controller, this closed-loop control system
has faster response ability and better stability. There-
fore, it is proved that the electric braking system es-
tablished based on the fuzzy-PID control has better
control effect and higher braking efficiency.
The simulation curves in the wet runway case
are shown in Fig. 8. The velocity curves(Fig. 8(b))
demonstrate the slippage and skid levels of the wheel
during the whole braking process. At the end of the
simulation, the aircraft velocity is 8 m/s, anti-skid
braking lasts 26 s and the distance of landing run is
1 198 m. Although the wheel slip appears at low ve-
locity, the whole system still owns higher braking ef-
ficiency as approximately 82%.
(a) Landing run distance
(1) The working theory of the slip rate anti-
skid control system and the electric braking sys-
tem is analyzed to establish the slip rate control
electric braking system.
(2) The electric braking system controller is
designed based on the algorithms of the fuzzy-PID
control with parameter self-adjustment feature to
make the system reach the optimal slip rate at the
shortest time and maintain constant, so that the
friction coefficient will reach the largest value and
the braking efficiency will be increased.
(3) The aircraft ground braking with electric
lated in the two cases of dry runway and wet run-
way. The results show that the whole system
keeps working in the state of stability and high
efficiency.
