浅谈界画的兴衰沉浮
界画是随山水画发展而派生的一科，主要是画与山水画中有关的亭台楼阁、舟船车舆。其特点是，比例切实、工整细致、真真切切地再现所画对象。在中国画中，界画是最多保留当时生活原貌的画种，其意义突破了审美的范畴。研究界画不仅可以临习技法，而且可以探寻社会民情，领略文化习尚，陶冶审美情操。

沉浮 山水画 中国画 审美  

1 Introduction
Landsat Data Continuity Mission ( LDCM) is one of the
world’s most enduring earth-observation missions; it
holds one of the largest collections of images used in
remote-sensing applications. In the Landsat 7 satellite,
there is a very large amount of data loss caused by de-
fective hardware in acquiring images with the onboard
ETM + sensor. This sensing instrument forms images
with a small array of sensors that sweeps back and forth
across its flight path, serving as a platform while flying
over the earth’s surface. This whisk-broom style sensor
has a functioning mechanism known as Scan-Line Cor-
rector (SLC), which keeps the whisk-broom module a-
ligned with the cross-track motion of the satellite’s
ground track or 薹〕E!t}l〔】〕. The Landsat 7 SLC failed on
May 31, 2003 and caused about 22% pixels un-
scanned in these im吕lg【=土s〔2〕 . Additionally, the TM sen-
sor onboard Landsat 5 has been suspended since No-
vember 2011. The next generation of LDCM, namely
Received:2014-01-08; Acceptd;2014-02-15
Corresponding author; Aghamohamadnia M, E-mail; maghamohamadnia
@ ut. ac. ir
Landsat 8, was scheduled to be launched in 2013
(USGS). Since a very long period of this continuing
program has gaps and some ETM+ data has been lost
(since 2003), seeking improvement of the acquired
images is necessary. Several approaches to estimate the
missing values have been proposed in the past; they
may be categorized according to the use of the tech-
niques and the way they approach the phenomena:
Basic and computationally-cheap image processing
methods; outsource auxiliary data-set utilization; com-
bination of various methods and stochastic-related im-
age processing techniques; and selective ,customized ,
and precise approaches.
Soon after Landsat 7 SLC failure, NASA and USGS
published a report proposing some approaches to par-
tially recover the un-scanned pixels. The proposed al-
gorithms basically rely on filtering kernels, and thus
the use of mean and variance of pixel values in the en-
compassing window as estimated pixel values in various
SLC-off and SLC-on cases. Scramuzza et al[i presen-
ted these methods,which are called global linear histo-
gram matching ( GLHM) and localized linear histogram
matching ( LLHM ) respectively. In a similar effort,
USGS?! declared an adaptive window linear histogram
match method ( AWLHM ) which is essentially the
same as the method of Scramuzza et alt! in its process-
ing algorithms, but different in window size.
Other researchers focused on the quality of the cho-
sen auxiliary (fill) images, which may not be Landsat
images, shortly before or after the master image of
ETM+ was taken. For instance, Mobasheri and Sade-
g}li〔5〕 used data from the Indian remote sensing satel-
lites (IRS) as filling image, whereas Boloorani et alt?
and Chen et al!” incorporated EO-1/ALI and CBERS
products. Roy et al’ used some much lower-resolution
information observed bv MODIS to calculate the reflec-
tance of the missing pixels.
By combining various methods and stochastically re-
lated image-processing techniques, Maxwell et al'?!
developed a Multi-scale segmentation approach and
Zhang et al’! and Pringle et all’ estimated gap area
using geo-statistical techniques, of which kriging or co-
kriging are well known. There have been efforts
through single-source ( such as Inpainting algorithm),
multi-source, and hybrid methods. A single-source
method uses same-image information to fill gaps; a
multi-source method involves more than one image for
reconstruction; and a hybrid method combines both of
the above approaches. There is ongoing research in the
field of Inpainting, also aimed at reconstruction of ima-
ges in plausible ways. Inpainting methods may be clas-
sified according to whether they are based on PDE, ex-
emplar Inpainting, or blocks.
By using available data and a customized algorithm,
Chen et al L proposed a simple but effective method,
in which information about the adjacent similar pixels
are utilized for estimating the missing pixels over heter-
ogeneous areas.
All of the above-mentioned algorithms have pros and
cons in various applications. LLHM is good in uniform
and semi-uniform areas, but lacks precision in dispa-
rate and complex regions. A simple algorithm is fast to
process large volumes of images,but its global applica-
tions are compromised. By using a moving window, the
estimation can be slightly improved"! . The multi-scale
segmentation approach focuses on segments but not pix-
el-level details, thus it is poor in recovering small and
narrow objects, such as streams and borders!?’. The
studying objects of small-size「“03 、
In Inpainting methods, the multi-source gap-filling
process cannot cope well with sharp changes between
two images, such as between conditions of sun glint,
snow, and cloud. In a single-source Inpainting algo-
rithm, it takes more computational time to reconstruct a
large area. The Neighborhood Similar Pixel Interpolator
(NSPI) approach does provide one or more reasonably
clear auxiliary TM or ETM+ image( s) but has several
potential limitations,such as cloud cover,when used
in such areas as humid tropical forest ecosystems,
which are covered by cloud about 90 percent of time".
In this paper, we present an algorithm which uses a
gap-filling method with severe striping effects. It uses a
moving neighbor-selection kernel associated with a de-
signed morphological and geometrical selection scheme,
and applies it to the first and second outer shields of
every stripe. The proposed algorithm has a better link-
age with the surrounding pixels of a striped pixel, in-
corporates geometrical and morphological characteris-
tics of relatively small and narrow objects in an image,
and has better precision and accuracy than NSPI. Al-
so, it is simpler and more whole looking than the LL-
HM and AWLHM methods,while avoiding the com-
plexity and computational expensiveness of Maxwell
et al'? | Zhang et al'? and Pringle et al! 史 . Tt does not
contradict with auxiliary data-using methods, and thus
can be used as the core process for the above-men-
tioned algorithms of this category. Also, it is applica-
ble to the output of other methods without a strict need
of the original data set, and it may be used to “resur-
rect” the large amount of processed images in the ETM
+ archive less expensively than some complex algo-
rithms. .
2 Algorithm
Although some methods have been proposed to cover
the gaps in the ETM+ images, they do not cover all the
gaps. This is because images are used in different ap-
plications by different users, who are focused only on
certain aspects according to their needs. Also, there is
a lack of interest in improving the weaknesses of the
make use of the many processed images already in ex-
1stence.
In developing a new algorithm, a trade off between
complexity and output quality should be considered. A
simpler method would produce less homogeneous filling
with lower level of adherence with the original image,
and thus would introduce more obvious stripes in the
output image. For instance, in the methods proposed
by Scramuzza et all31 and USGS! | we may see im-
provements from LLHM to AWLHM. Thus, in this
study, we tried to improve the striped images by adop-
ting a customized approach, with steps described be-
low.
2.1 LLHM and AWLHM algorithms
As a first step ,gaps are located by the LLHM method.
Then a linear transformation from one image to another
is found. The pixel values of the SLC-Off image to be
filled (the“ primary scene’) can be generated by ap-
plying a corrective gain and bias to the pixel values of
an SLC-On image (the ‘fill scene’ ). Rather than per-
forming a computationally expensive linear fit, the cor-
rective gain and bias can be found by using the mean
and standard deviations of the data. This transformation
can be applied to the entire fill scene, giving a global
linear histogram match. For greater precision and bet-
ter-looking products ,the corrective gains and biases
may be calculated with a moving window around each
pixel in the scene. This is the basis of the localized
linear histogram match ( LLHM) or Phase 1, method
for gap filling in a SLC off scene of a Landsat 7 im-
萝】[ge〔_2]. The AWLHM or Phase 2, method is an en-
hancement of the Phase 1 algorithm,which allows us-
ers to choose multiple scenes and to combine SLC-off
scenes. It gives a more accurate result, but needs more
computation time. If computational speed is more im-
portant than statistical error,then LLHM should be
used! 12) 。
2. 2 Gap-filling methods
In the second step, LLHM and AWLHM are used to
fill a gap scene. These methods use a moving window
on the SLC-off and SLC-on images consecutively cen-
tering on every gap pixels, and implement linear histo-
gram matching to find a linear transformation from one
image to another. This method is effective in smooth
areas, DUl laCKs Precision 11 areas WIIn complex ICX-
tures!*’. Thus, our main purpose is to restore small
features.
2.3 Stitching stripes to the background image
In SLC-off images, gaps are almost parallel. To esti-
mate substitute values, it is reasonable to place the
parallel values in their corresponding gap areas, be-
cause of the relative homogeneity and smoothness in the
background and striped areas. However, the existence
of the border lines between these areas in the image
gives an unpleasant view for qualitative study and inac-
curacy for quantitative analysis. In this paper, we pro-
pose the idea of stitch lines 《 with different degree of
sensibility depending on the surrounding pixels) going
through pixels of the outer shell of a stripe, from neigh-
boring background candidate pixels to the inner neigh-
boring pixels of the stripe. By applying these lines ac-
cording to a statistical-similarity mechanism, it is pos-
sible to retrieve part of the texture on the border line a-
long the stripes. By using the stitch lines, we may a-
void the smoothing effect of some commonly used im-
age-processing solutions, such as local-average filte-
ring, and highlight the lost texture instead. Whether to
apply a stitch line to a stripe「s border pixel depends on
the surrounding pixels of the target pixel in both the fill
and the striped images. Also, by using this method, it
is possible to make small and narrow objects bold and
clear. The length of a stitch line may make some
difference in the performance of this method. A longer
line may incorporate more distant and irrelevant data
and may cause greater smoothness. In this study, the
line length is 5 pixels, or 2 on each side of the target
pixel. The application is made firstly to the closest
neighbors and then for the second-level expansion of
the stitch line.
2.4 Extraction of stripe-border pixel values by u-
sing morphology operators
In this step, we use reliable and original adjacent val-
ues in the background image to estimate the unreliable
inner pixels along the stripes. The border is between
these two groups of pixels and we want to pass a stitch
line through the border pixels. So, we need to extract
the values of these border pixels first with a simple and
fast algorithm. By using the mask layer of the ETM +
image and the input image, the morphology operators is
implemented according to:
where E is extracted border image of the stripes, M is
mask image, [ is the image itself, X is dot product op-
erator, and 8 is morphological erosion. The Mask im-
age is a binary image, having values of 1 in gap areas
and zero in no-gap areas. The morphological kernel is
a 3x3 matrix as shown in figure 1(c).
Figure 1 Schematic view of consecutive steps in this algorithm.
Stripe induced by (a) gap filling image, (b) Stripe
morphological border extraction 《 stripe「s outer shell
pixels in blue squares) , ,(e) Neighbor pixels identifi-
cation, (d) First stage similar pixel, (e) First stage
stitch line, (f) Second stage similar pixel, (g) Second
and First stages stitch line.
2.5 Stitch-line length
In this step,we select pixels adjacent to each border
pixel with a process based on radiometric similarity.
There are (n+1) pixels forming the stitch line with a
border pixel at the center. Since this center value is
fxed and the adjacent values are selected to be propor-
tional to this value, it is reasonable to expand this line
starting from this value outwardly. So our first values to
use are the adjacent values. Selection is made among
two groups of pixels as drawn in figure 1(c) (in or-
ange and purple colors) without involving any border-
line pixel. After detecting candidate pixels on each
side of the border line, the next selection is based on
the nearest value to the center value. By this selection
we get two new pixels shown in figure 1(d) (in green
color) on both sides of center pixel and a stitch-line
length of 3 pixels as shown in figure 1(e). We then re-
iterate the previous process with center at each of the
two adjacent pixels. In detecting candidate values of
neighbors, the previously selected pixel values should
not be included. The result is the addition of two more
pixels (in yellow, Fig. 1(f)) to the stitch line, which
has now 5 pixels and passes through the background
adjacent pixels (Fig. 1(g)).
2.6 Estimation of borderline pixel values
In this last step, we form a line with a length of (2n+
1) pixels, where n is the longitude level of the stitch
line. We can estimate the best values for the borderline
pixels by using the following equation with incorporated
weights for the pixels in the stitch line.
where X is the estimated value of borderline pixel, p; is
the value of the i" adjacent pixel, g is the old border-
line pixel value, n is the total number of adjacent pix-
els on each side of the borderline pixel, Di is the dis-
tance of a pixel from the center pixel, and more weight
is granted to a closer pixel( Fig. 2).
3 Test results
3.1 Algorithm implementation
The test data used in this study was from a single-band
(Band 4) of a Landsat ETM + SLC-Off image of north
Tehran in Iran acquired in 2012 (Fig.3(a) and a SLC-
on image of exactly the same area acquired by Landsat 5
satellite「s sensor MSS in 2002 (Fig. 3(b) ). These images
were spatially co-registered and then imported into LLHM
and AWLHM algorithms for gap filling.
The calculated results are shown in figures 3( c) and
3(d). As mentioned before, the stripes are more visi-
ble in the result of LLHM than AWLHM. Also, the
complexity of texture may influence the clarity of
stripes and make them bolder.
Figure 2 Flowchart of the first-stage algorithm on a single
band of image
Figure 3 (a) A SLC-off image with gaps; (b) A SLC-on
image for the same area as (a); (￠) LLHM-
filled image ; (d) AWLHM-filled image
Although the resultant AWLHM image ( Fig. 3(d))
is quite different from the imported data ( Fig. 3(a) ) ,
a significant quantitative improvement is observable
through statistical analysis. After this modification, the
border pixels with new values are counted as pixels in a
new non-striped region. It is possible to repeat this al-
gorithm on the new borderline between new striped and
non-striped regions to seek additional but smaller im-
provement.
3.1 Validation and evaluation
To evaluate the results qualitatively and quantitatively
to see if they have made any improvement, we used an
intact (no gap) part of the SLC-Off scene, which has
both urban and homogenous rural areas,with its com-
patible fill scenes as our validation data. We also used
an artificially masked image ( Fig. 4) to introduce
gaps arbitrarily. Following the above-mentioned steps,
we first filled the gaps and then stitched the border val-
ues to the background areas. Since we knew the exact
original pixel values, it was possible to check if the re-
sults got better or worse. Error estimates were made by
calculating the mean absolute difference between the
values of pixels that existed in both the matched fill
scene and the SLC-Off image. The result of statistical
error estimates is given in table 1, and the percentage
improvement in table 2.
We have applied this algorithm separately to every
image band of Landsat, but chose to show the result of
Band 4,since it had higher contrast and wider histo-
gram, which made the effect of this method more ob-
servable.
Figure 4 A sample patch of mask image
Table 1 Numerical error of stripe-stitched
according to ground-fruth data (DN values) in
three cases; Sole ( striped image of LLHM and
AWLHM) First (implementation of method on
first outer border of stripes), Second (imple-
mentation of method on second outer border of
stripes)
Sole First Second
AWLHM LLHM AWLHM LLHM AWLHM LLHM
1 1.5740 2.3069 1.4181 2.0208 1.3812 1.7823
2 1.8637 2.6708 1.6326 2.0271 1.5787 1.8081
3 3.2262 4.3601 2.8132 3.3572 2.6950 3.0382
4 5.6056 12.0519 4.7983 8.6532 4.5775 7.5888
5 4.5332 14.6587 3.9756 10.2610 3.8245 8.9168
7 4.1036 8.5817 3.6193 6.1530 3.4890 5.4207
Table 2 Same as table 1, but for different bands in per-
centage
First stage Second stage
AWLHM LLHM AWLHM LLHM
9.9 22.4 2.6 11.8
12.4 24.1 33 10.8
12.8 23.0 4. 2 9. 5
14.4 28. 2 4.6 12.3
12.3 30.1 3.8 13.1
11.8 28.3 3.6 11.9
Figure 5 shows the effects of applying this algorithm
to the border pixels. The added values have resulted in
magnified intensity. By comparing it to the Band 4 im-
age, it is obvious that this method affected the complex
urban areas more than the homogeneous rural areas.
The quantitative validation results are given in tables
1 and 2 and shown in figure 6, in which the horizontal
and vertical axes show the original and estimated val-
ues, respectively, From this figure, it is clear that, by
using of this method, data points became less scattered
(or the precision was improved) and more aligned with
the identity line (or the estimated pixel values became
closer to the real values) in general.
Various factors may cause different degrees of errors
in gap-filled SLC Off images. To see how this method
functions regardless of magnitude of error before or af-
ter the gap-filling process, we calculated relative errors
in percentage for the different bands (from the 1* to
the 6?) of the same Landsat image. The results are
given in table 2.
In this paper, we addressed a striping problem caused
by a previous effort to compensate for SLC-Off defect,
and proposed a simple improvement method applicable
to the output data of LLHM and AWLHM algorithms.
This method deals with pixels at the border line be-
tween the striped area and its adjacent area,and de-
velops a stitch line between these areas by assuming
similarity of neighboring pixels. Data from band 4 were
selected for validation tests,because the image had a
higher contrast. Such tests and error evaluations, using
mean absolute difference, showed both quantitative and
qualitative improvements by this method. we can see
how the precision was improved through this algorithm
and how the estimated pixel values became closer to
the real values. However, this method also introduced
a smoothing effect at the stripe borders, due to the fact
that we used mean estimator. However, this effect is
negligible, because there was a selection process before
assured the reliability of this method.
In the future, it may be of interest to apply this
method to study data from all the bands,or to use ima-
ges for the same area obtained by other ancillary sen-
sors. Also, it may be worthwhile to look into some ap-
propriate nonlinear central estimators, both for estima-
ting the center values of the adjacent pixels, and for
error estimation and comparison.
