深化知识管理 支撑技术攀登
2014年12月7日，“长征”系列运载火箭成功完成了第200次发射，彰显了中国作为航天大国的实力。中国实现第一个100次发射用了37年，实现第二个100次发射仅用了7年，这也反映出中国航天已经步入“高密度”发射的新常态。面对新形势，中国运载火箭技术研究院坚持实施知识管理战略，促进支撑研究院技术攀登与创新发展，为研究院的改革转型和能力提升创造有利环境。

支撑技术 知识管理 中国运载火箭技术研究院 “长征”系列运载火箭 中国航天 发射 高密度  

3D (three dimensional) CMM (coordinate
measuring machines) are widely used to take
measurements directly in the manufacturing
environment. For some applications, AACMM offers
some advantages compared with orthogonal CMMs,
some as measuring of larger measuring volume, ease of
use, more measurement freedom and to be less
expensive. However, the measurement error of
AACMM (articulated arm coordinate measuring
machines) exceeds that of orthogonal CMMs because
its configuration brings to easy error accumulation. If
the measuring equipment is installed in a measuring
laboratory where measuring conditions are controlled
and measurement equipments are suitably fixed and
properly treated, performance characteristics keep
under its requirements. Nevertheless, the common use
ofAACMM is at shop floor level conditions where it is
usually manipulated by different operators. Under
these conditions, AACMM’s performance
characteristics get worse and it is hard to determine
when it fails to fulfill with its performance specific
requirements.
The growing use of articulated arm coordinate
measuring machines at Spanish industry has been
accompanied by an absence of authorized laboratories
to provide calibration certificates for AACMM’s
performance. In this scenario, IK4 Tekniker has set up
a performance calibration service of this measuring
equipment filling this metrological gap at Spanish
industry [1-3]. IK4 Tekniker offers ENAC accredited
performance calibration service for different types and
volumes of AACMM.
Firstly, a search about standards applicable to these
machines has been carried out. As a result, two
standards have been found. ASME B89.4.22 Standard
[4] and VDI 2617-9 Standard [5]. IK4 Tekniker has
compared both of them in order to develop internal test
procedures to yield reliable performance calibration
results. Moreover, ENAC certificated reference test
Performance Calibration of Articulated Arm Coordinate Measuring Machine 603
equipments have been acquired and uncertainty
evaluation analysis has been developed in order to
achieve accreditation by the Spanish Accreditation
Body.
describes the measurement equipment needed for the
whole calibration process; Section 3 discusses the
calibration procedure; Section 4 explains uncertainty
assignment and evaluation of the measuring process;
Section 5 presents results and Section 6 gives
conclusions.
2. Test Equipment
According to ASME B89.4.22 Standard, the whole
calibration performance test of an AACMM is
subdivided into three different tests: effective diameter
test, SPAT (single-point articulation test) and
volumetric test. For this reason, multiple reference test
equipments are needed to carry out the whole
calibration test. As general rule, reference test
equipments must be ENAC certificated and its
uncertainty must be within one tenth of the working
tolerance for each of the three performance tests.
Precision reference ball is used for effective
diameter test and single-point articulation test for
switching probes. The sphere is made up of ceramic
and the combined surface finish and sphericity does not
exceed one fifth of the working tolerance. A reference
ball of 30 mm diameter has been fixed to a table to
carry out performance tests.
Trihedral seat comprises three hardened spheres
placed in a flat bottom or “cup”. In this way, a very
stable and high repeatable mount is obtained for
locating AACMM“s tip through three point contacts. It
is used for the single-point articulation test with hard
probes. It has been ENAC calibrated using a CMM
machine available at IK4 Tekniker.
A ball bar of 2,400 mm maximum calibrated length
has been purchased for the volumetric performance test.
It is made up of carbon fiber composite and it
comprises 13 balls, the distance between two
consecutive balls is 200 mm and every distance is
ENAC calibrated. Therefore, the ball bar has a
minimum calibrated length of 200 mm and a maximum
calibrated length of 2,400 mm, which allows IK4
Tekniker to carry out performance calibration of
AACMM as long as 4 m of sphere diameter. The ball
bar has been mounted in precise rotatory table to
position it in horizontal, vertical and 45° orientations. It
is shown in Fig. 1.
RA 7320SE romer absolute arm has been used to
check the reliability of the calibration process prepared
at IK4 Tekniker, as can be seen in Section 5. Its
measuring range is 2 m (sphere diameter) and it is
made up of carbon fiber. Probing is done manually by
the operator since it includes a hard contact probe of 6
mm (diameter). It has been mounted in a portable plate
to be located in each of the 20 positions of the
volumetric performance test.
3. Calibration Procedure
As mentioned above, the whole calibration
performance test of an AACMM is subdivided into
three different tests: effective diameter test, SPAT and
volumetric performance test [4]. The intent of the
calibration process is to evaluate the performance of an
AACMM, enabling to the final users to determine if it
is appropriate for their specific requirements or not.
Prior to conducting performance calibration test, the
machine must be mounted in accordance with final user
specifications and ensuring suitable mounting stiffness
and orientation. Moreover, appropriate environmental,
electrical and vibration conditions must be provided
during the entire process.
Effective diameter test: Rigidly mounted precision
reference ball is measured using nine probing points,
with this information a sphere is determined through
test.
604 Performance Calibration of Articulated Arm Coordinate Measuring Machine
the AACMM software and its diameter is calculated.
The measuring process must be carried out minimizing
the articulation of the AACMM. The difference
between the measured and calibrated diameters of the
sphere is reported as diameter deviation. The effective
diameter performance test value is reported as the
maximum deviation regardless of sign. Obtained
results may reveal different problems as machine or
probe hysteresis or improper probe calibration [4].
SPAT: It seeks to assess the ability of the AACMM
to provide similar values of a point coordinate when the
equipment is articulated through the maximum
possible range of motion for that single point. This test
incorporates aspects of both repeatability and
reproducibility. If the AACMM incorporates a hard
probe, trihedral seat is used as reference equipment.
Nevertheless, when using switching probe precision
reference ball is mounted as reference equipment. The
single-point performance articulation test is performed
placing the trihedral seat or precision reference ball at
three different locations within the working volume.
For each of three positions, 10 points are taken by the
Table 1 Volumetric performance test based on 20 measuring
Position No. Artifact length “ Octants Inclination Distance Direction
1 Short 8
2 Short 5
3 Short 1&2
4 Short 4&7
5 Short 7&3
6 Short 1&5
了 Short 2
8 Long 2&8
9 Short 3
10 Long 1& 7
11 Short 1&6
12 Short 6&3
13 Short 5&4
14 Short 3&8
15 Short 5&2
16 Short 1&8
17 Short 2&7
18 Long 3&4
19 Long 2&6
20 Long 4&8
AACMM. The statistics used to represent the single
point articulation performance are the maximum
deviation of the points from a mean value and twice
standard deviation of the point location [4].
Volumetric performance test: It will assess aspects
of the linear displacement accuracy and volumetric
performance of the AACMM. The measuring process
measuring positions for the ball bar: ball bar length,
working octants, ball bar inclination, distance from
AACMM to reference ball bar and measuring direction.
The general approach is to position the ball bar in two
vertical orientations, 10 horizontal orientations and
eight 45° orientations with respect to the AACMM to a
given distance (near/far) and measure five points per
sphere, working out center-to-center calibrated value.
Since ball bar is fixed in a rotatory plate to get
performance orientation, AACMM is placed around
the ball bar to carry out each length measurement. As a
result, 20 distance values are obtained according to the
20 measuring positions defined in Table 1.
The results of this test will be reported as three
positions.
Horizontal Near Radial
Horizontal Near Radial
Horizontal = Far Tangential
45 deg Far Tangential
Vertical Far Tangential
Vertical Far Tangential
Horizontal Near Radial
45 deg Near Tangential
45 deg Near Radial
45 deg Near Tangential
45 deg Far Tangential
45 deg Far Tangential
45 deg Far Tangential
45 deg Far Tangential
45 deg Far Tangential
45 deg Far Tangential
45 deg Far Tangential
Horizontal ~~ Near Tangential
Vertical Far Tangential
Vertical Near Tangential
Performance Calibration of Articulated Arm Coordinate Measuring Machine 605
quantities: the maximum deviation from the calibrated
ball bar value, the range of the deviations and two times
the root-mean-square of the deviations [4].
4. Uncertainty Evaluation
Uncertainty evaluation analysis has been developed
to evaluate all error sources associated with the testing
equipment under the conditions that prevail at the time
of testing. Since the whole calibration process involves
three different test measurements, an individual
uncertainty is addressed to each of three individual
calibration tests.
Effective diameter test: Uncertainty sources that
contribute to this test uncertainty are calibrated
diameter of the precision reference ball, temperature at
the time of testing and the uncertainty associated with
the lack of rigidity of the reference ball mount. In this
case, mount does seem to be rigid enough to disregard
this error source.
SPAT: Uncertainty sources to be considered are the
rigidity of the trihedral seat and its geometrical
perfection. The contribution of the trihedral seat has
been analyzed and calibrated in CMM and uncertainty
associated with the rigidity of the seat has also been
considered to be zero.
Volumetric performance test: Uncertainty sources
include ball bar’s uncertainty stated on the calibration
certificate, uncertainty due to dimensional drift of the
ball bar, uncertainty contribution of the temperature at
the time of testing and uncertainty because of the
fixturing. For the ball bar, expanded uncertainty is
explained in Eq. (1):
U stanparp = 1 + 0.0015 x 工 sranparp qY)
Due to the lack of information to calculate the
dimensional drift of the ball bar based on different
observations, it has been considered that dimensional
drift is equal to the calibration uncertainty of the ball
bar and it follows a rectangular distribution. Eq. (2)
shows expanded uncertainty for the dimensional drift
of the ball bar.
乙/D/蓁/'=z`= 2 x (1 +0.0015 x L stanpARD) [6 (2)
In temperature contribution case, law of propagation
of uncertainty has been applied in order to analyze the
effect of the variables uncertainties on the uncertainty
of the temperature function based on this variables
[6-8]. These variables are ball bar calibrated length,
thermal expansion coefficient and temperature
variation from 20 °C. Eq. (3) explains length correction
to be done.
AL = [ x a x 工 (3)
In this case, variables are uncorrelated between them,
so the combined standard uncertainty is give by law of
propagation of uncertainty given by Eq. (4) [6-8].
In Eqs. (5) and (6), law of propagation of uncertainty
is applied to the length correction to be done.
And
Considering that calibration is done at laboratory
conditions, length difference between AACMM and
measuring equipment is considered to be zero.
Therefore, length variation uncertainty (uL) is
disregarded as shown in Eq. (7):
Since length variable is different for AACMM and ball
bar, both lengths are introduced in Eq. (8):
where,
Ls= standard「s length used in the calibration, which
depends on AACCM length;
Ldacnd = AACMM’s length to be calibrated; (Sent
by the client);
AT = temperature variation. Laboratory conditions
are 20 + 0.5 °C at IK4 Tekniker;
a = coefficient of thermal expansion. Both AACMM
and ball bar standard are made up of the same material
606 Performance Calibration of Articulated Arm Coordinate Measuring Machine
(carbon fiber);
pa = 10% of the thermal expansion coefficient;
ur = thermometer’s uncertainty stated on its
calibration certificate.
Expanded uncertainty for the temperature
contribution is shown in Eq. (9), it is obtained by
multiplying the combined standard uncertainty
achieved in Eq. (8) by a coverage factor k, which can be
assumed that taking k = 2 produces an interval having a
level of confidence of approximately 95% [6-8].
〔/艾'鹫'…〗\//魉〕′=2xXHemp?
Uncertainty associated with the fixture has been
considered to be zero.
Therefore, expanded uncertainty for the volumetric
performance test is as Eq. (10). Introducing
information related to the standard’s length,
AACMM「s length, temperature variation, expanded
uncertainty for the volumetric performance test is
achieved.
口=VUS阑″D麒尺D___Z/Z〕/藿^′′=7`_+_丕/艾'/…【`///】〈(10)
In order to set up acalibration service of AACMM at
IK4 Tekniker, a CMC (calibration and measurement
Eq. (11) describes the realizable measurement
29.996 29.986 29.991 29.988 29.988 0.01 0.0006 pum
Table 3 SPAT results.
capability of IK4 Tekniker at AACMM performance
calibration.
the diameter length of AACCM introduced in
millimeters (mm).
5. Results
According to ASME B89.4.22 Standard each of
three individual calibration tests has its own data
analysis and its own uncertainty evaluation. After
developing calibration procedure and uncertainty
evaluation, RA 7320SE romer absolute arm has been
used to check the reliability of both developments
prepared at IK4 Tekniker and to design the format for
reporting performance evaluation results.
Effective diameter test: As mentioned above, the
effective diameter performance test value is reported as
the maximum deviation regardless of sign. Table 2
shows these results in millimeters (mm).
SPAT: The statistics used to represent the single
point articulation performance are the maximum
deviation of the points from a mean value and twice
standard deviation ofthe point location. Table 3 and
11.251 0.0296 0.0009
11.211 0.0290 0.0008
11.251 0.0186 0.0003
11.201 0.0435 0.0019
11.234 0.0392 0.0015
11.255 0.0527 0.0028
11.229 0.0456 0.0021
11.244 0.0163 0.0003
11.239 0.0157 0.0002
Performance Calibration of Articulated Arm Coordinate Measuring Machine 607
X;= X measured coordinate touch by the AACMM;
Y;= Y measured coordinate touch by the AACMM;
Z;= Z measured coordinate touch by the AACMM,;
= Three dimensional deviation from the average coordinates to each of the corresponding 10 points.
80 ~
菖 2S SPAT
Position
Fig. 2 SPAT results depicted.
Fig. 2 show results obtained at SPAT.
center-to-center length is calculated as depicted in
Table 4. The results of this test are reported as three
quantities: the maximum deviation from the calibrated
ball bar value, the range of the deviations and two times
the root-mean-square of the deviations. Fig. 3 shows
test results depicted.
6. Conclusions
A reliable calibration test procedure has been
developed to describe and break down AACMM’s
performance. Furthermore,uncertainty evaluation of
all error sources involved in the calibration process has
also been analyzed; results in Section 5 show that
uncertainty values achieved are small enough to ensure
a reasonable performance evaluation of an AACMM.
As aresult of the job presented, a calibration service for
this class of measurement equipment has been created
at metrology unit of IK4 Tekniker research centre and
it has been certified by achieving ENAC accreditation
by the Spanish Accreditation Body. By the way, the
lack of this service at the Spanish industry is satisfied
successfully.
Table 4 Volumetric performance test results.
Measuring “ 口 巧 。 6 6; x J;
Range 0.073
2RMS 0.440
Exp. uncertainty 0.0036 pm
乙 = Measured length by the AACMM;
Le=Calibrated length of the ball bar standard;
6= Length deviation from the ball bar value.
30 i Max. deviation
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ￥ Il 12 13 14 35 18 17 18 19 20
Correction
Fig.3 Volumetric performance test results depicted.
