飞机全系统电磁兼容性试验采标分析
简要阐述了飞机全系统电磁兼容性 (EMC)试验的内容和特点 ,分析了目前有关飞机EMC工程中常用的标准 ,结合型号任务中全系统EMC试验采标实践 ,总结归纳飞机全系统EMC试验的采标方法。

电磁兼容性 试验 采标  

Erosion occurring in equipment dealing with
liquid-solid mixtures such as pipeline parts, slurry
pumps, liquid-solid stirred reactors and slurry mixers in
various industrial -applications results in operational
failure and maintenance costs.
Hydro-erosion occurs in practice in two ways, one is
the erosion by a cavitating liquid and the other is the
erosion by solid particles entrained in liquid flow
known as slurry erosion.
In slurries, the material removal from the
equipment components is mainly caused by the solid
particles and the material loss caused by corrosion is
of relatively minor importance [1]. Stirrers in
flotation cells, pumps in mining industry, pipes for
crude oil recovery, turbines in hydropower
engineering and instrumentation parts such as valves,
bends, etc., are some examples of hydroabrasion
occurrence.
The machinery and equipment dealing with the
liquid-solid flows can be damaged by erosion leading
to low operational efficiency and short service life with
frequent overhaul. In order to reduce the erosion of the
machinery, the following approaches could be
considered: (1) manufacturing technology; (2)
selection of type and parameters of machines; (3)
operational control; (4) erosion resistant design; (5)
erosion resistant material; (6) predicting the erosion
rates and locations.
Erosion occurs due to plastic deformation and
cutting. Deformation wear takes place when the
particles hit the target material perpendicular. Cutting
wear is associated with parallel component of the
particle impact’s velocity to the specimen. Finnie [2]
and Trustcott [3] have reported that erosion in slurry
pipelines is mainly caused by the cutting impact of
suspended solid particles, since the angle of particles
impact in pipe flow is relatively small.
The material removal is determined by the laws of
fluid mechanics and properties of the liquid-solid
mixture and the target material properties. The flow
2274 Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Slurry Tank
properties are dependent of the component geometry,
surface topography and flow rate. Here the physical
properties of the two-phase mixture are affected by the
solid particles concentration, size distribution, type,
shape, density, hardness and sand settling velocity.
The erosion wear of a material in contact with a
flowing suspension can be determined by the target
material loss per unit area or loss in thickness namely
as penetration rate under the dynamic and continuous
action of solid particles. The unit of erosion wear is
usually given per unit time or per unit solid particle
throughput [4].
The wear tests in pilot plant test loops are time
consuming and quite expensive, therefore it is very
useful to develop a method to predict the local erosion
rate in slurry handling equipment based on the
measurements in the test rigs.
Altaweel [5] analyzed the phenomenon of wear
using a single particle concept. Elkholy [6] has carried
out a systematic study on the phenomenon of abrasion
wear in slurry pumps and has shown that wear is
dependent on velocity, concentration, particle diameter,
conduct controlled experimental tests using equisized
loss and an equation for erosion rate prediction in terms
of the mentioned parameters was derived. Harvey et al.
[8] developed a semi-empirical model for synergy of
erosion-corrosion of carbon steel in a slurry pot.
Some researchers have attached a mixer at the
bottom of the stutry tank for better suspension of solid
particles in the liquid phase [9, 10] in a homogeneous
manner.
Bree et al. [11] have rotated the mixer and erosion
erosion samples.
Investigations on the suspension of solid particles in
a cylindrical tank test rig by Sharma and Shaikh [12]
suggested that a propeller directing the liquid-solid
mixture downwards towards the bottom of the
cylindrical tank provides better uniform distribution of
solid particles in comparison to upwards directing
impellers.
Biswas et al. [13] observed that application of a
pitched turbine blade impeller provides better
suspension of solids at lower speeds compared to that
of the butterfly type impeller.
Desale et al. [14] made some improvements in the
design of pot tester to simulate erosion wear due to
solid-liquid mixture and has found that the impeller
rotational speed required for uniform distribution of
solid particles in the tank varies with particle size,
specific gravity and concentration of solid particles and
have called this speed as the suspension speed.
CFD simulation of erosion rate and its location,
together with the validation of results with
experimental findings of erosion in a slurry tank is not
studied in details in literature.
Moreau et al. [15] applied recently the CFDRANS
simulations with the MRF technique to predict the flow
behavior in a batch stirred tank reactor.
The present work reports experimental
investigations of erosion of two hard metals in
water-sand mixture in a slurry tank in order to validate
the CFD simulations applying the MRF technique, and
also studying the dependence of erosion wear to the
influencing impact parameters.
2. Experimental Setup
The test rig as depicted in Fig. 1 contains a
are used to support the rotating shaft and a hardened
seal is provided to prevent the leakage of water from
the bottom ofthe tank. Another motor is located at the
top of the test rig connected to a shaft to rotate the
erosion plates fixed to a holding arm. Fig. 2 represents
Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Slurry Tank 2275
Fig. 1 3-D view of the slurry tank test rig.
Fig. 2 3-D view of the holding arm, fixtures and an erosion
plate sample.
an erosion sample plate, the fixtures holding the plate
and the arm which would be connected to the shaft. As
it is depicted, there is the possibility to place the plates
with various angles by fabricating different holding
arms. The rotating direction of upper motor should be
in opposite direction compared to the bottom motor. It
provides effective distribution of solid phase in liquid
phase and minimizes the relative velocity effect. The
erosion plates were weighted with a precise labor scale
(Sartorius Company, R300S model) which has the
readability of 0.1 mg, before and after each test to
quantify the mass loss of each plate.
3. Multiphase Modeling Approach
A multiphase flow containing dispersed particles
may be modeled using either the particle transport
model or the Eulerian-Eulerian multiphase model. In
Eulerian-Eulerian multiphase, a momentum equation
needs to be solved for each representative size which
becomes very costly. The particle transport model is
applied in the present study since it is more flexible
when there is a significant size distribution leading to
different particle velocities and provides more detailed
information on behavior and residence time of
individual particles. However, the turbulence model
used in a particle tracking simulation only applies to
the continuous phases. Turbulence can affect the
particles through the particle dispersion force, but the
particles can have no effect on the turbulence of the
continuous phase, other than indirectly by affecting the
velocity field [16].
The typical sand particle size distribution is in the
range of 0.1 mm to 0.8 mm in pipelines as it is depicted
in Fig. 3 from experimental measurement by a
HORIBA particle size analyzer which is based on laser
scattering (Retsch Technology, LA950 model) at our
laboratory. Pepple [17] applied the phase Doppler
method for dilute, turbulent liquid-solid flow in a
vertical pipe and demonstrated that in general, the
particles in the range of 0.5 mm damp the fluid
turbulence while the particles in the range of 1.0 mm
and 1.5 mm are either neutral or enhance the
turbulence.
A Lagrangian-Eulerian model for liquid-solid
particle flow contains an Eulerian formulation for the
liquid phase and the Lagrangian formulation for the
particle phase together with a stochastic dispersion
model to calculate the influence of liquid phase turbulence
i 0 200 400 600 800 熹
Particle size (um) |
Fig. 3 Measured size distribution of sand particles.
2276 Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Slurry Tank
on the solid particle phase. It is commonly known that
detailed inlet conditions play an important role in
accurate Lagrangian predictions [18], so that a large
number of particle trajectories are required to gain a
stochastically significant solution.
In the Eulerian-Lagrangian model, the liquid phase
is simulated by applying the Eulerian conservative
equations of continuity and momentums. In the
where U, =U, +u, is the instantaneous liquid
velocity, F,, is the external force. The response time
of particle, f , is defined as:
diameter, respectively. The particle trajectories are
computed by:
Thetwo way coupling source between the liquid and
solid particle phases is given by:
where the summation is carried out over all particle
trajectories crossing the control volume.
4. Application of an Erosion Model
A comparison of erosion models was performed by
calculating the erosion (material weight loss) of a
square shape 44 W carbon steel specimen, eroded by a
vertical water/sand jet tester for some various operating
parameters―here the flow velocity 一 with four erosion
models from Refs. [2, 19-21]. The results are then
compared with the experimental erosion results of
Wang et al. [22] for a water/sand jet set-up to
investigate the erosion of hard metals. By comparison
of various erosion models with experimental results as
depicted in Fig. 4, it was concluded that the
Grant-Tabakoff erosion model fits very well with the
experimental results and thereby was selected as the
appropriate erosion model for further modeling and
study of erosion of rotating plates in a slurry tank.
4.1 Grant-Tabakoff Model
Tabakoffet al. [20, 23] has experimentally indicated
that the erosion of a specimen is mostly dependent on
the particle impingement angle and its impact velocity.
The uniqueness of this model compared to other
erosion models of its kind is that it contains the particle
impact restitution coefficient as an influencing
parameter, and in particular the tangential restitution
coefficient 叉 ,as one of the parameters affecting the
erosion rate,
The following equation was developed by Grant and
Tabakoff [20] to predict the erosion of the ductile
materials and alloys and is defined as the ratio of the
eroded mass of target material to the mass of impinging
solid particles.
empirical function of particle impact angle, 几 , and
Xuy are respectively the tangential component of
incoming particle velocity and of rebounding particle
velocity. f(V;,) is the component of erosion due to
the normal component of velocity.
The tangential restitution ratio is defined as follows:
can be rewritten as:
The effect of the particle approach angle is inserted
into 乙 01) and a strictly empirical approach is used
to predict its behavior. The result ofthis analysis yields
the following expression:
Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Siurry Tank 2277
where, 力 is the angle of attack where the maximum
erosion occurs, 无 is a material constant and 心 is
defined as:
The component of erosion resulting from normally
impacting particles is expressed as:
Overall erosion rate of the wall due to the solid
particles interaction with the wall is finally computed
from the following equation:
where, N is the number rate of solid particle and 7,
is the particle mean mass.
4.2 Finnie and Bitter Combined Model
Finnie [2] was one of the first researchers to
develop an erosion model. The proposed model for
erosion of ductile metals is based on an analysis of the
kinetic energy exchange mechanisms during the
impact of a single solid particle where the cutting
wear was the predominant mechanism. This simple
erosion model is able to accurately predict ductile
material erosion at relatively low impact angles.
However, at high impact angles, the predictions
deviated significantly from experimental values. Due
to high impact angles, Finnie has suggested that
material “cutting” action ceases to exist and
“deformation” wear predominates. This model
was later modified by Bitter [24] who considered
the both effects of deformation wear and cutting wear
[25].
A modified version of the Finnie-Bitter combined
model equation is in the form of Eqs. (12) and (13):
respectively, X is a numerical constant and has a value
of 4.85, ￠ and s are the energy needed to remove a
unit volume of material from a body due to
deformation and cutting wear, respectively and are
derived from experimental data. my/p is the
experimental constant in the cutting term and m/e is
the experimental constant in the deformation term in
Eqs. (12) and (13).
2278 Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Slurry Tank
4.3 Ahlert-McLaury Model
Wang and Shirazi [19, 22] predicted erosion rates on
pipe bends using a CFD based approach and an erosion
model was developed by their coworkers, Alhert and
McLaury [19] for sand particle impacts in water which
is given by Eq. (14):
where, F, is the particle shape coefficient, V is the local
impact velocity; 4 is an empirical constant and B is the
Brinell’s hardness number of the test material. Alhert
[26] used two functional forms of the angle dependence,
with matching conditions applied at 15°. The
dependence on impingement angle, 8) is given by
Eqs.(15) and (16):
4.4 Huang Model
Huang et al. [21] developed a material oriented
erosion model taking into account the two important
cutting mechanisms, namely the line cutting and area
cutting. This model is written as:
where, K, and K, are the coefficients which depend
on the materials and must be fitted from one set of
stiffness ratio describing relative strength of eroded
material and particle. ￡5, Op and E5 are the
stiffness, hardness and elongation (ductility) of the target
material, respectively. 友 , and U p are the particle
mass and particle impingement velocity, respectively.
5. CFD Simulation
Geometry of the slurry tank together with the
rotating arm, fixtures, mixer and sample plates as
depicted in Fig. 5 were generated and finely meshed
with the ANSYS-ICEM software. Grid study was
performed carefully in order to obtain a fine mesh
which the values of simulation results are independent
of the number of mesh elements. The final mesh has
totally 1,603,338 nodes and 1,525,700 elements and
consists of three sub meshes. One for the rotating
erosion plates, one containing the mixer and the third
one for the slurry tank. The advantage is that when for
instance, the orientation angle of the erosion plates is
varied to investigate the angle effects on the erosion
rate, the related mesh part for the erosion plates can be
substituted in the final mesh, saving in time and
computational efforts.
Since the final mesh contains three sub meshes, it is
possible to define three computational zones in
ANSYS-CFX,namely by applying the MRF method as
it is shown in Fig. 6. Here, one rotating reference zone
is defined for the erosion plates, one rotating reference
zong for mixer and one stationary reference zone for
the slurry tank. In the MRF technique, the equations are
expressed in a reference frame that rotates with the
rotating part speed and will be solved in a stationary
mesh. This method is used since it is less resource
demanding than sliding mesh approach and give quite
good results. The sliding mesh method is appropriate
for strong baffle/impeller interactions since the
information is exchanged through the sliding interface
at each time step [15].
Definition of interfaces is necessary between
rotating zones and stationary zone. Since the surface
mesh of rotating side and stationary side of each
interface are not identical, the GGI (general grid
interface) method is applied for transforming the data
among the zones. We have also proved that changing
the diameter and height of each of the two rotating
zones containing the rotating parts have a negligible
effect on simulation results.
5.1 Simulation Parameters
The physical properties of water and dry sand are
listed in Table 1.
Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Slurry Tank 2279
Fig. 5 Geometry modeling of the test rig.
Fig. 6 MRF technique for modeling.
Table 1 Physical properties of dry sand and water.
Water 18.02 997.0 4.181.7
Sand (dry) 60.10 1,620.0 800.0
However,the atomic packing factor for precise
determination of the bulk sand density must be taken
into account. The APF (atomic packing factor) or
packing fraction is the fraction of volume in a bulk
structure that is occupied by atoms. For one-component
materials, the APF is represented mathematically by:
By assuming the APF = 0.7 from literature for the
sand bulk, the density ofmoist sand in the tank will be
assumed as 2,300 kg/m’ for the CFD simulations.
The CFD simulations are performed to predict how
the erosion rate of rotating elements for a specified
target material is changing with various influencing
parameters. The important influencing parameters
namely flow velocity, solid particle concentration and
solid particles size were studied in the current work.
The CFD results have been compared and validated
with experimental results of erosion mass loss of
stainless steel (with hardness of 235 HV30) and ST-50
(with hardness of 122 HV30) with various rotational
velocities, sand weight concentration values and solid
particle size groups in the slurry tank. The
experimental tests conditions for study the flow
velocity and solid concentration effects are presented
in Table 2 in detail.
Table 2 Experimental tests to investigate the flow velocity
and sand concentration effects.
1 10 Stainless St. 200 -200
2 10 Stainless St. 160 -160
3 10 Stainless St. 120 -120
4 10 Stainless St. 80 -80
5 10 ST-50 200 -200
6 10 ST-50 160 -160
7 10 ST-50 120 -120
8 10 ST-50 80 -80
9 5 Stainless St. 120 -120
10 8 Stainless St. 120 -120
11 10 Stainless St. 120 -120
12 5 ST-50 120 -120
13 8 ST-50 120 -120
14 10 ST-50 120 -120
2280 Bvaliuption of Hydrosbrasien in. Shuey Tank
6.
6.1 Velocity & Concentration Effects
Erosion weight loss of stainless sheel. 0 1.4301)
and steed 50-(r. 1.0531) in waterssand imixttre in the
$0 slurry tank measured at different
rotational velocities and different. sand concentrations.
The mass loss of stainless. steel and ST-50 have
evaluated in. the tank fest rig with 10% sand {weight
concentration) and at, four varios velocities
of erosion plates and mixer plites fom 80 RPM 10.200
RPM asd is depicted in Fig. 7. It has been observed that
the erosion increases increase in rotational
velocity and the of ST-50 is
reasonably higher than stainless steel. This is sxpected
since the hardness of ST-50 is Jower than the hardaess
of stainless steel, It has also been observed that the
difference of the material loss between the two niateiial
samples increases 8 the rotational velocity increases.
RPM, the mass losses. of both materials were reported
RPM is lower than the suspension speed which is the
minimum impeller rotational required for
uniform distribution of the whole solid particles inside
the tank.
The material weight losses of stainless steel and
graphically in Fig. 8. As depicted, the erosion mass loss
logatithmic with increase in sand
concentration and the mass loss of ST-50 is in average
more than two timés higher than the mass loss of
stainless steel for all three tested concentration values,
CFD results of mass loss of stainless steel are
compared with experimental values for different
particle concenttsticns and rotational velocities and are
shown in Figs. 9 and 10, respectively, In Fig. 9, both
the steady state and transient simulation results are
The variation between the simulations
Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Slurry Tank 2281
versus the rotational velocity.
and experimental results for bigger values of
concentration and rotational velocities would increase
further. Thereby, for other comparisons only the
transient results are validated with experimental
values,
The CFD results are qualitatively and quantitatively
in good agreement with experimental results for both
influencing parameters, however some small variations
are observed. One reason could be the assumption of
sand particles as solid transport particles which
provides to set an injection source for the solid particles,
here assumed at the center point between two rotating
zones. In present study, the whole amount of sand was
assumed to inject in to the domain from a central point
source in the tank. Another important reason is due to
complexity and variably of the flow patterns inside the
tank compared to the conditions which the erosion
models have been experimentally developed.
Especially, the rotating sample plates and mixer are
rotating in counter direction in respect to each other, as
in our experimental tests. Generally, an erosion model
which was generated for instance in accordance with
the experimental results from a water jet test rig, might
not precisely predict the erosion rate quantities in a
slurry tank test rig.
As it is observed in Fig. 11, the pressure distribution
around the rotating erosion plates demonstrate that a
local high pressure difference occur in the vicinity of
plates causing a strong turbulent flow around the
Fig. 11 Pressure distribution around the rotating elements.
erosion plates. In Fig. 12, the progress of the erosion
rate over the plate as the sand particles concentration in
the tank increases is demonstrated for the case of
rotational velocity of 120 RPM. The erosion is mainly
occurs on both edges of the plate and progress slightly
towards the center of the plate as the concentration
increases from Fig. 12a: 5% to Fig. 12c: 10% mass
concentration.
CFD results of mass loss of ST-50 are compared
with experimental values for different sand
concentrations and rotational velocities and are
presented in Figs. 13 and 14, respectively.
The CFD results are qualitatively and quantitatively
in good agreement with experimental results for both
cases. However, for higher rotational velocities the
deviation would slightly increase.
6.2 Particle Size Effects
Increase in particle size, increases the erosion wear.
The increase in the particle size at a constant solid
concentration decreases the number of particles
suspended in the mixture and at the same time
increases the kinetic energy per particle impact [27, 28].
Thus, the increase in wear with an increase in particle
size is generally attributed to the increase in energy
available for erosion. Our experiments with three
various particle size groups as are brought in Table 3,
present a progressive increase in erosion rate density
with increasing the particle size as depicted in Fig. 15.
2282 Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Slurry Tank
Fig. 12 Erosion values and locations with (a): 5%, (b): 8%
and (c): 10% particle concentration.
The highest deviation from the experimental results
is at the third particle size group which is our standard
particles used in other tests to study the velocity and
concentration effects. The simulation value has a
deviation of 9.621% or a difference of 0.222 mg with
respect to the experimental value. According to our
experimental tests, a better mixing ratio was achieved
for finer particle Groups 1 and 2, hence the better
correlation to the experimental results.
ST-50 in various particle concentrations.
Fig. 14 Validation of CFD and exp. erosion results of ST-50
in various rotational velocities.
熹0吴Sob
熹123§
Particle size group |
Fig. 15 Validation of CFD and exp. erosion results of
stainless steel versus various particle sizes.
Table 3 Particle size groups.
Parameter (ptm) Groupl  Group2 Group 3
Minimum diameter 39.23 58.95 67.52
Maximum diameter 344.21 394.24 678.50
Mean diameter 141.98 174.75 263.93
Standard deviation 43.48 51.27 105.35
Evaluation of Hydroabrasion in a Siurry Tank 2283
7. Conclusions
A slurry tank tester has been designed and built to
study the effects of erosion influencing parameters
such as flow velocity, sand concentration, target
material properties, target material orientation angle,
etc..
In the present work the effects of flow velocity, sand
concentration and particle size on erosion mass loss of
two different hard metals are studied.
The method of multiple reference frames is applied
to simulate the flow in slurry tank with ANSYS-CFX.
The general grid interface is applied since the surface
mesh of stationary and rotating side of each interface
are not identical. It was observed that changing the
height and diameter of each rotating zone has a
negligible effect on the simulation results.
It was observed that the erosion mass losses of both
materials are increasing with increase in flow velocity
and sand concentration. Both variations could be
predicted with a logarithmic dependence of mass loss
to rotational velocity and sand concentration.
The particle size effect on the erosion rate also has
been studied for three various particle size groups. The
simulated results are in good agreement with
experimental results for all the three influencing
parameters which were studied in this work.
It was also approved that the erosion mass loss of
ST-50 is reasonably higher than that of stainless steel.
It is due to lower hardness of ST-50 than stainless steel
and thereby lower resistance to impact effects of solid
particles. A new erosion model can be also developed
for the accelerated erosion mass loss of materials in a
slurry tank tester when effects of all influencing
parameters are studied in detail.
Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank “Stiftung
Rheinland-Pfalz fiir Innovation” for financial support.
