ISO/TC20/SC1第28届会议在法国召开

ISO/TC 地面电源 飞机供电特性 数字式测试 特性参数 用电设备 系统特性 电气系统 电磁兼容性 航空航天飞行器  

Nowadays, the renewable energy sources constitute
a fairly good portion of the total energy sources all over
the world. This portion is growing rapidly due to many
reasons. One of these reasons is the expected end of
fossil energy sources in the near future. Environmental
pollution, which reaches unacceptable levels, is
another reason for the increasing global interest in
renewable energy sources. Wind, solar, marine wave,
tidal, geothermal energies are examples of the available
renewable energy sources. Wind energy is the
fastest-growing renewable energy source in the world.
About five years ago, the global installed capacity
exceeded 50,000 MW, with a growth of about 10,000
MW/year [1]. Concerning the Middle East, there is a
big potential for wind power-generation. The
mountainous nature of many parts provides continuous
airstreams with a suitable range of air speed for
commercial purposes.
Also, there are very long distances of coastal lines
along the Mediterranean and Red seas that are suitable
for wind power-generation. Even in other areas, where
wind speeds are not enough to construct large-scale
wind turbines, small-scale (home-scale) turbines may
be used.
There are few different techniques to maximize the
power output and optimize turbine performance at all
wind speeds. These techniques include blade
pitch-control, camber control with flaps and generator
torque control. Blade pitch-control is the system which
monitors and adjusts the inclination angle of the blades
and thus controls the rotational speed of the blades. At
lower wind speeds, the pitching system leads to an
acceleration of the hub rotational speed, while at higher
speeds; blade pitch-control reduces the wind load on
the blades and structure of the turbine and keeps the
generator at the rated power. Such a method is
currently used by turbines in the 500 kW to 1 MW
range. Traditionally, there are different types of
pitch-control systems including hydraulic, mechanical,
electrical and electro-mechanical systems. About one
third of the installed wind machines use pitch-control
2238 New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines
mechanisms [2].
In the present investigation, the pitch control is
carried out such that the rotor blades are rotated around
their longitudinal axis while the rotor continues its
normal rotation. The main objective is to develop a
suitable simple, low-cost and robust control
mechanism. The present mechanism is consistent with
the current trend in shifting towards the
electro-mechanical systems due to their known
reliability and low maintenance needs. The mechanism
is implemented to a three-blade model. The section of
the blades that were molded from fiberglass resembles
a standard airfoil section. The mechanism is powered
by a suitable electric motor. The model tests were
carried out in the open section of a delivery wind tunnel.
An electronic circuit of a microcontroller was used to
control the movement of the control mechanism. In the
following sections, concentration is much paid to the
control mechanism more than the control circuit.
Many researchers concerned the problem of active
control of wind turbines of all sizes and types. In the
following section, some of these researches are
illustrated to show a broader view of the control issue
of the wind turbines.
2. Previous Investigations
2.1 General Control Problem
The control subject in general was studied by many
investigators. Johnson [3] developed, tested and
analyzed an adaptive control strategy. He argued that
the cost of changing the control strategy on an existing
turbine is very small when compared with the cost of
the turbine. Ragheb [2] carried out a survey of the
different types of control that are applied in wind
turbines. He stated that about one third of the installed
wind machines use pitch-control mechanisms.
As a more specific task, a review of the objectives
and techniques used in the control of horizontal axis
wind turbines at the individual turbine level was carried
out in Ref. [4], where controls are applied to the turbine
blade pitch and generator.
2.2 Blade-Pitch Control
The blade-pitch control problem was the main
subject of many researchers. Muljadi et al. [5] analyzed
and simulated the operation of variable-speed wind
turbines with pitch control. They showed that the wind ,
turbine can be operated at its optimum energy capture
while minimizing the load on the wind turbine for a
wide range of wind speeds. Bindner [6] presented a
model for design and analysis of controllers for pitch
controlled wind turbine to evaluate and improve pitch
controllers for conventional three bladed pitch
controlled wind turbines (Vestas Wind Systems WD34
400 kW).
The speed control of a modern pitch-regulated wind
turbine was investigated [7]. A controller structure was
derived and the significance of various parameters in
the controller structure was investigated. Thus, the
influence of the speed control bandwidth on the speed
variations, torque stresses and energy production was
analyzed. Hansen et al. [8] presented three different
controller designs based on PI (proportional-integral)
regulation of rotor speed and power through the
collective blade pitch angle and generator moment.
They illustrated that numerical optimization can be
used to tune controller parameters. In Ref. [1], the
author developed a method of achieving variable speed
operation of wind turbines via a pitch
servo-mechanism. She considered three types of pitch
actuator dynamics and integrated them into control
design. She concluded that since the actuator dynamics
were considered in her design, the developed pitch
control algorithms were less sensitive to operating
points and more practical and suitable for real-time
implementation.
2.3 Blade-Pitch Control by Matlab Simulink Toolbox
Matlab Simulink toolbox was used to simulate
blade-pitch control. In Ref. [9], the researcher aimed to
design a simple controller to maximize the extracted
energy of wind turbines through pitch angle control of
a variable speed wind turbine using Matlab Simulink
New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines 2239
toolbox. In the same direction, Ramakrishnan and
Srivatsa [10] described the modeling of the various
components in a pitch controlled wind energy system
and the design ofthe pitch controller, and discussed the
response of the pitch-controlled system to wind
velocity variations. They found that the cost of their
mechanism is low compared to a corresponding
hydraulic actuator mechanism and can be used up to 30
kW wind turbine.
2.4 IPC (Individual Pitch Control)
who discussed the possibility of using the individual
pitch actuators for each blade by sending different pitch
angle demands to each blade. He demonstrated that a
very significant reduction in operational loading can be
achieved by applying the considered individual pitch
control. Afterwards, in Ref. [12], the investigator
pointed out that the up-scaling of wind turbines, even
towards 10 MW wind turbines, may be necessary to
lower the costs of offshore wind energy and this
requires considerable reductions of turbine loads. As a
continuing effort, Selvam et al. [13] focused on the
problem of wind turbine fatigue load reduction by
means of IPC. Their results demonstrated very good
load reduction at a wide range of frequencies, giving
rise to fatigue load reduction of the non-rotating turbine
components.
2.5 Fuzzy-Logic Controller
Some of the investigations were related to
fuzzy-logic controllers of the blade-pitch. In Ref. [14],
the authors developed a fuzzy-logic pitch-angle
controller. They explained that the fuzzy-logic control
technique has the potential over other techniques (e.g.,
PI controller) when the system contains strong
non-linearity. Recently, Musyafa et al. [15] built and
demonstrated a wind turbine prototype with a
pitch-angle control based on fuzzy logic to maximize
the output power. They found out that, in the varying
low-rated wind speed of 4-6 m/s, the use of fuzzy logic
controller can maximize the average output power of
14.5 W compared to 14.0 W at a fixed pitch angle of
the blade for 1-m diameter, three-blade wind turbine.
2.6 VAWT (Blade Pitch-Control of Vertical-Axis Wind
Turbines)
Although the present work concentrates on HAWT
(horizontal-axis wind turbines), it is beneficial to show
that investigators concerned the blade pitch-control
technique for the VAWT (vertical-axis wind turbines)
too. Lazauskas [16] compared the theoretical
performance of three variable pitch mechanisms for
VAWT. He stated that the examined pitch control
systems can all be configured to produce better starting
torque, a broader operating range, and greater
efficiency than fixed pitch VAWT. In Ref. [17],
investigators simulated a dynamical-system model and
a control algorithm to enhance the efficiency of a small,
VAWT. They stated that applying their pitch control
model leads to large improvements in the amount of
power extracted from the turbine, thus, highly
increasing its overall efficiency. Paraschivoiu et al. [18]
proposed a procedure for computing the optimal
variation of the blades’ pitch angle of an H-Darrieus
wind turbine that maximizes its torque at given
operational conditions for a 7 kW prototype. They
stated that a gain of almost 30% in the annual energy
production was obtained with the polynomial optimal “
pitch control.
3. Home-Scale Wind Turbines
There is an increasing interest in the development
and construction of home-scale wind turbines. There
are many advantages of this type of turbines that
encourage the utilization of them. These advantages
include low cost, easy manufacturing and maintenance
as well as durability. Usually, they produce power from
200 W to 1,000 W and work at low wind speeds;
starting from 5 m/s. Their size ranges between 0.4 m to
2.0 m. These turbines may be used individually or in
groups either on top of buildings or in the backyards of
2240 New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines
residential or commercial complexes. The home-scale
wind turbines are useful for both urban and suburban
areas. Fig. | shows photos of some commercial
home-scale HAWT. These turbines may have the
traditional shape of wind turbines with simple wind
direction guide, Fig. la. Other turbines may take
unusual aerodynamic shapes to improve their
aerodynamic performance and increase their output
power, Figs. 1b and lc. As can be seen in Fig. Ic, the
turbines may be installed using long towers on top of
the houses or in the backvards. There is also a
commercial utilization of home-scale VAWT. Fig. 2
shows photos of a type of commercial home-scale
vertical-axis wind turbines in different urban and
suburban areas. As can be seen in Fig. 2, the turbine
may be placed in various locations in spite of their
architecture complexity.
4. Blade-Pitch Control
The importance of the blade-pitch control can be
best understood when comparing with the stall control
mechanism by considering the description of Ref. [22],
as: (1) Stall control: It is characterized by fixed blade
pitch, and passive power control by stall effect. Wind
speed is the control parameter, Fig. 3; (2) Pitch control:
Active power control is activated by wind turbine
control unit. The control parameters are power output,
wind speed and rotor speed, Fig. 4.
5. Present Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism
The main idea of the present pitch control
mechanism is to change the blade-pitch angle during
the operation of the turbine. A simple mechanism was
developed to carry out this job and implemented on a
turbine model. Fig. 5 shows the main components of
the control mechanism, which is integrated with the
turbine shaft and nacelle frame.
The main components of the mechanism can be
listed, as numbered in Fig. 5, as follows:
1―Nose: It enhances the aerodynamic performance
over the turbine body and prevents stagnation at the
Fig. 1 Photos of some commercial home-scale HAWT.
[21].
turbine head. The nose has a parabolic profile and was
fabricated from wood, Fig. 6. It is fixed to the hub
through fixation groves in the rotating power disk (2).
A guide hole presents in the nose for correct alignment
of the main shaft (7).
transfers the power from the hub to the main shaft (7).
It is fixed to the hub by three small threaded bolts and
fits into the prepared grooves in the rear of the nose (1),
New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines 2241
(e) Power limitation (stall) (f) Stall effect
Fig. 3 Blade stall control [22].
Fig. 6. The main shaft (7) fits tightly into the central
hole of the rotating power disk.
3- 一 Blade arms: There are three blade arms, one for
each blade (4). The blade arms are used to adjust the
integration with the turbine shaft and nacelle frame.
Fig. 6 Turbine nose.
Fig. 7 Rotating power disk (Dim. in mm).
blade angle. The blade arm, Fig. 8, is an accessory
piece that transforms the translational motion of the
pulley to a rotational motion at the upper part of the
piece by a torsional spring. The translational motion is
applied to the pulley by the rotating control disk (8).
The turbine blade is fixed at this upper part. Blade arms
transfer the power from the blades to the hub (5).
4 一 Blades: The turbine model is equipped with three
tapered blades. The profile of the section of the blade is
NREL S822 of National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
Refs. [23, 24], Fig. 9. The blades were made of
fiberglass to save weight. Each blade is tapered with
the following dimensions: Blade length = 150 mm,
2242 New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines
Fig. 8 Blade arm.
Fig. 9 Blade section and overall shape of blade.
Blade chord at blade base (turbine hub) = 80 mm,
Blade chord at blade tip = 38 mm.
5―Hub: It contains the rotating power disk (2) and
the blade arms (3), Fig. 10. It is made of steel. The hub
is connected to the main shaft (7) through the rotating
power disk (2). The hub has the following dimensions:
Hub length = 70 mm; Hub inner diameter = 82 mm;
Hub thickness = 4 mm.
fix the rotating control disk (8) into place in the hub (5).
They are made of steel and inserted firmly into their
places. These two fixation pieces allow axial
movement (sliding) of the rotating control disk (8).
7―Main shaft: The main shaft is made of steel
covered with chrome, Fig. 12. Thus, it is smooth with
good surface finish. It connects the rotating power disk
(2) to the generator through gear/pulley arrangement
(12). It rotates inside the rack tube (9). The main shaft
has the following dimensions:
Shaft length = 272 mm; Shaft diameter = 12 mm.
Fig. 10 Turbine hub.
Fig. 11 Fixation piece (Dim. in mm).
Fig. 12 Overall view of the main shaft (Dim. in mm).
It pushes the three blade arms (3) simultaneously to
change the pitch angle of the three turbine blades (4). It
is connected to the rack tube (9) by a ball bearing that
allows the rotating control disk to rotate with the hub (5)
and moves axially in the same time. It is connected to
the hub (5) through two fixation pieces (6) that allow
the axial movement (sliding) of the rotating control
disk.
9―Rack tube: It is made of steel, Fig. 14a. It is a
concentric tube that contains the main shaft (7) and is
connected to the rotating control disk (8) through a ball
bearing. The tube is equipped with linear gear teeth that
engage with the teeth of a pinion. This pinion is fixed to
the shaft of a DC motor (13), Fig. 14b. The calibrated
rotation of the motor is transferred as a linear motion of
the rack tube, which in turn, pushes the rotating control
disk (8) against the blade arms (3). The torsional
springs ofthe blade arms transforms the motion into a
New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines 2243
Fig. 13 Rotating control disk.
Fig. 14 Rack tube and pinion.
rotation of the blades (4) to be set at the required pitch
angle. Fig. 15 shows a drawing (Fig. 15a) and a photo
(Fig. 15b) of the assembly of rotating control disk (8)
and rack tube (9).
10―Connection part: It connects the hub (5) to the
nacelle frame (11), Fig. 16. It consists of a bearing
whose outer race is connected to the hub (5) and its
inner race is fixed to a stationary steel sleeve that is
connected to the nacelle frame (11).
that were welded together to carry the nacelle cover,
which was made of thin steel sheets. The nacelle
contains the blade-bitch control mechanism. It also
completes the aerodynamic shape of the turbine by
direct connection to the hub (5) through the connection
part (10). A ball bearing was fixed at a rear ring to hold
the main shaft (7).
12―Gear or pulley arrangement: A gear or pulley
arrangement, Fig. 18, is to be fixed at the far end ofthe
main shaft (7). Then, the power is transferred to the
electrical generator via the gear arrangement or a
pulley-belt arrangement.
6. Assembly of Present Wind Turbine Model
Fig. 19 shows two overall views of the wind turbine
assembly with the control mechanism. All mentioned
parts in the above section are assembled together in a
rack tube (9).
Fig. 16 Hub to nacelle frame connection part.
(a) Drawing of nacelle frame “(b) Photo of turbine model
with nacelle
Fig. 17 Turbine nacelle and its frame.
Fig. 18 Main shaft gear/pulley arrangement.
Fig. 19 Overall views of the wind turbine assembly.
2244 New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines
sequence. Fig. 20 shows a photo of the wind turbine
with tower. The wind turbine is equipped with the DC
control motor (13), which moves the rack tube (9)
through a pinion. The power is transferred from the
main shaft pulley (12) to the electrical generator (14)
through a pulley-belt arrangement. As the present
investigation concentrates on the control mechanism, it
was preferred to put the electrical generator outside the
turbine nacelle. The generator was fixed on turbine
tower as seen in Fig. 20.
Fig. 20 Photo of the wind turbine with its tower.
Fig. 21 DC motor (13) and pinion arrangement.
Fig. 22 Assembly of the blade arms (3).
Fig. 23 Assembly of the control mechanism.
7. Operation of Pitch-Control Mechanism
7.1 DC Motor
To carry out the control process, firstly, a suitable
DC motor was chosen (13). DC motor has many
favorable features that are beneficial to control process,
namely: self-engage, relatively high-torque, low
rotational speed and start-up voltage (5-12 V).
The rotational speed (rpm) of the motor is adjusted
by changing the input voltage. Moreover, the rotating
direction of the motor can be switched from CW
(clockwise) to CCW (counter-clockwise) by changing
the input current polarity. The motor is fixed directly
under the nacelle on the turbine tower, Fig. 21. The
rotational motion ofthe DC motor (13) is transferred to
the rack tube (9) through a pinion, Fig. 21. The tube
rack-pinion combination transfers the rotational
motion of the pinion to a transitional (linear) motion by
the rack tube (9). Then, the rack tube pushes the
rotating control disk (8) forward or backward against
the blade arms (3) that transforms the translational
motion of the small pulley to a rotational motion at the
upper part of the blade arm by a torsional spring, Fig.
22. The translational motion is applied to the pulley by
the rotating control disk (8). Thus, the turbine blade (4)
that is fixed at the upper part of the blade arm rotates to
the desired pitch angle. An overall view of the
assembly of the control mechanism is shown in Fig. 23
with all components in place.
7.2 Microcontroller Circuit
The DC motor (13), which is the main source of
motion to the pitch control system, is adapted to be
controlled by one oftwo methods, namely:
Automatic control: The automatic control is applied
to the DC motor (13) by a microcontroller circuit. The
circuit decides the value of the input voltage to the DC
motor (13) and the time of operation to control the
amount of the rotational displacement of the DC motor
(13). Thus, the amount of blade rotation (pitching) can
be precisely adjusted. Also, the circuit controls the
New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines 2245
current polarity to change the rotational direction of the
DC motor in CW and CCW directions. The
microcontroller circuit consists of a microcontroller
chipset, resistances, capacitors, etc..
The microcontroller is programmed according to a
series of experimental measurements using a suitable
wind tunnel as will be illustrated in a coming section.
The parameters that were recorded and used in the
programming are the wind speed (U,), the turbine
rotational speed (VN, rpm), and the output voltage of the
generator ( 与 ).
Manual control: A selector switch was used to
control the input of the DC motor (13) manually in case
of failure of the automatic control circuit. The manual
control only moves the motor in the form of constant
pulses. These pulses are calibrated to change the blade
angle in steps of 1 degree for each pulsation. Also,
change of current polarity is available.
7.3 Sequence of Operation of the Present Blade-Pitch
Control Mechanism
The following steps summarize the sequence in
which the present blade pitch-control mechanism
works:
e According to the output voltage (V,) of the
generator, an electronic signal is fed to the DC motor
(13) from the microcontroller of the automatic control
circuit to rotate with a certain rotational angle.
s The motor shaft begins to rotate (CW/CCW to
decrease/increase the blade angle) according to the
current polarity signal from the microcontroller.
s Consequently, the motor pinion rotates with the
same rotational angle.
s The rack tube (9) receives the rotational motion of
the pinion and responds by a translation motion that is
transferred in turn to the rotating control disk (8).
o To decrease the blade angle, the rotating control
disc (8) moves forward and applies the necessary force
on the blade arms (3) to twist their torsional springs to
move the blades (4) by the required angle to adjust the
blade angle.
s To increase the blade-pitch angle, the rotating
control disc (8) moves backward and reduces the
applied force on the blade arms. Thus, the torsional
springs return partially to their original state, rotating
the blades and the blade angle is increased to the
required value.
8. Mechanical Design Analysis and Electrical
Generator
8.1 Mechanical Design Analysis
Mechanical design analysis was carried out to make
sure that the fabricated or selected mechanical
parts/components of the turbine are capable of
operation safely without failure under the design (rated)
power of the turbine. As it is not the objective of this
paper to concern mechanical design aspects of the
turbine, there are no more illustrated details about this
1SSUE.
8.2 Electrical Generator
A suitable permanent magnet DC generator (14) was
used to carry out the experiments of the control
mechanism. This type of generators has the advantage
of being so sensitive that they generate power at any
rotational speed (rpm). They are compact and have a
wide operating range. So, they are suitable to work in
many applications. The generator was connected to the
turbine shaft (7) through a pulley-belt arrangement (12).
The generator outlets were connected to a DC
constant-current circuit as an operating load.
9. Experimental Measurements
9.1 Programming the Microcontroller
A series of experiments was carried out using an
open-section, delivery wind tunnel. The wind turbine
was tested in the open section of the wind tunnel that
has an exit section of 50 cm x 50 cm. The diameter of
the wind turbine is 40 cm. These experiments were
necessary to program the microcontroller of the pitch
control circuit. The wind speed ranged between 5 m/s
2246 New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines
and 15 m/s with an increasing step of 1 m/s. Speed
control was carried out using a moving gate at the
entrance of the wind tunnel. Angle of attack (blade
angle) ranged between 2° and 12° with an increasing
step of 1°. Usually, the three control parameters are
wind speed (U,), wind turbine rotational speed (XV,
rpm), and the output power of the generator (Po). In our
case, as the load current is constant, the output voltage
(V,) is related directly to the rotational speed (NV) of the
wind turbine. Consequently, the output voltage ( 尹 ) is
directly proportional to the output power (P,) of the
generator. Thus, the two control parameters of the
present work are the wind speed (U,,) and the generator
output voltage (V,). The rotational speed (N) was
measured and recorded as a check parameter to the
output voltage (V,). Appropriate software/hardware
facility was used to record the signals and program the
microcontroller. For manual observation, the air speed
(U,) was measured using a Pitot-static tube. The
rotational speed ( of the wind turbine was measured
using a non-contact (optical) tachometer. A suitable
electrical multimeter was used to record the values of
the output voltage ( 之 ),
9.2 Validation of the Present Control Mechanism and
Circuit
To make sure that the present blade-pitch control
mechanism works well, a validation process was
carried out. The validation was based on experimental
measurements of the output voltage (V,) while making
small changes of the wind speed. The signal of the
output voltage (V,) was directly connected to the
control circuit after adaptation. Control mechanism and
circuit should maintain the rating value of the output
voltage (V,). Experimental conditions were arranged
such that the following operating conditions are set: (1)
wind turbine output power (P,) = 200 W, (2) blade
angle of attack (a) = 7°, (3) rotational speed (N) = 220
rpm, (4) output rating voltage ( 一 ) = 12 V and 24 V.
The wind speed was changed around the average
wind speed (U,) of 8 m/s by closing and opening the
gate of the wind tunnel by small amounts. The output
voltage was recorded manually every 30 s during a
period of 10 min. Figs. 24 and 25 show the results of
the output voltage when applying the control circuit
and mechanism.
As can be seen in Figs. 24 and 25, the control
mechanism succeeded in maintaining the average value
of the output voltage at the rating value in spite of the
unexpected and sudden changes in the flow speed. The
fluctuations are in the range of 10% of the average
value. Also, the response time of the control
mechanism is acceptable. It is clear that the inertia of
the mechanism is not big due to the light weight of the
blades that were casted from fiberglass.
the control circuit and mechanism for a rating output
voltage (V,= 12 V).
the control circuit and mechanism for a rating output
voltage (V, = 24 V).
New, Simple Blade-Pitch Control Mechanism for Small-Size, Horizontal-Axis Wind Turbines 2247
10. Conclusions
The present work concerns the blade-pitch control of
a home-scale horizontal-axis wind turbine. The basic
idea was to introduce a simple, low-cost and robust
control mechanism that is suitable for this type of wind
turbines. Based on the previous discussions, it is clear
that the mechanism has a good performance. The
mechanism is easy to manufacture and maintain. The
response-time of the mechanism is generally
acceptable for this application. The using of fiberglass
as the blade material helps greatly in reducing the
overall mechanism inertia. The inertia may be reduced
further by using materials fabricated from plastics,
plastic alloys or composites. Also, a simple electronic
circuit with a microcontroller was used to control the
mechanism. To properly program the microcontroller,
a series of experiments were carried out to record the
wind speed (U,) and corresponding shaft rotational
speed (N) and generator output voltage (￥,). The two
main control parameters of the present work is the wind
speed (U,) and the generator output voltage (V,). The
rotational speed (NV) was measured and recorded as a
check parameter to the output voltage ( 厅 ). The output
power may be used as the control parameter with
appropriate measuring instrumentation. The control
process may be further developed by using appropriate
probes, transducers, data acquisition arrangements and
software (e.g., fuzzy-logic) to be fully monitored and
adjusted by a laptop or a personal computer, This
process helps in re-programming/re-adjusting the
control circuit for new/unexpected operating
conditions. However, this may lead to a higher-cost
mechanism. Finally, it is obvious that the proposed
control mechanism is feasible for commercial
large-scale production.
Acknowledgments
The author would like to acknowledge Mr. M.IL.
Ibrahim, Mr. M.A. Soliman, Mr. A.l. Ewida and Mr.
A.A. Mohamed for their help in manufacturing the
wind turbine and the control mechanism, Mr. SAA. |
Sallam, Mr. M.A. Mohamed for helping in the
experiments, and Mr. M.R. Said and Mr. E.S. Hasan
for their help in the assembly, programming and testing
of the control circuit.
