世纪之交的蓝天盛会――第三届中国国际航空航天博览会成功举行
迎着新世纪的曙光,第三届中国国际航空航天博览会于11月6日至12日在风光秀丽的珠海隆重举行。尽管在7天的展期中,有几日天气不好,使飞行表演大受影响,但航展还是达到了比前两届规模更大,专业化、国际化、科

航空航天 飞行表演 集团公司 航展 博览会 新世纪 国际化 专业化 中国航天 中国国际贸易促进委员会  

The efficiency of engine is the most important priority
during designing of modern engines. Those questions
corresponding to the decrease of fuel consumption and
decrease ofimpact on natural environment have become
extreme importance efficiency is also important today,
where intensification of transport use have negative
impact on air clarity and economic growth is the cause
for increase of fuel consumption,
The direction of SI (spark ignition) engine
development was based on the development of
automotive market and introduction of new technology
which gave many new products. Now the most
important aims are decrease of fuel consumption and
fulhlling more and more radical norms of emission
relating to toxic gases emissions and keeping of high level
of usable engine parameters as torque and power [1].
Photochemical smoke over the city is today the
“normal” effect of chemical reaction under sunrays in the
big and high industrialized cities.
In most of countries administration setup of limitation
of emission was mode. These toxic gases [2] are:
hydrocarbons (C,H), carbon monoxide (CO), nitro
oxide (NO), molecular parts (PM) and sulfur oxide (SOx
― mainly from the fuel pollution).
Currently, in phase of continuous development are
systems which are able to increase efficiency of SI
engines and enhance the ecological parameters of fuel
combustion process [3-5]. By applying a combination of
a few different modern constructional systems, the
considerable decrease of fuel consumption and exhaust
gases emission could be achieved (Figs.1-2).
The alternative fuels as a source of energy for the
modern engine are still developed by the quality and
exploitation requirements. It can be a cause of more
effective use ofthis fuel as renewable source ofenergy in
the future. Except ofthis,now we have many possibilities
of adopting engine feeding system to specific properties
of fuel [6-8].
Indirect measures of these are achieved of low level
of fuel consumption and low toxic gas emission as well
as the increase (or keeping) of engine parameters like
torque and power.
The Impact of Flexible Element Inside of intake Canal on Kinematics of Load in Combustion Chamber 539
Aversge fual consumption [dm?/100km]
Fig. 2 Comparison of brake specific fuel consumption and
hydrocarbons emission for gasoline direct injection engine
by the mixture type―Brake Mean Effective Pressure [6].
Many researchers [9-12] were engaged in the
research about impact of intensification of vortrex in
combustion chamber on heat transfer in SI engine.
Others were engaged in the research about impact of
turbulence on heat arising [13-15] and stabilization of
burning process in piston [16]. The results of
this type of research in different way indicate the
impact of swirl on work conditions. The authors
agree that the vortex has a positive impact on air-fuel
mixture formation by achievement of more
homogeneous form. This conclusion was made by the
achievement of decrease of level emissions of carbon
monoxides and hydrocarbons. Also the increase of
nitro oxide was achieved. However, the impact of
vortex on heat transfer wasn’t clear. The possibilities of
intensification of preliminary swirl in intake canal are
seldom mentioned in research works. This
intensification can be very important when formatting
the homogenous mixture, being in low engine rotatory
speed (rpm) level, being for the engines with the
relatively small capacity of one cylinder and for using
of alternative fuel by engine feeding system.
2. Experimental Stand
The experimental stand was based on the real intake
system of four strokes, four cylinders SI engine with
displacement of 1,598 cm. The diameter of intake canal
for experimental stand was 34 mm. The cause of
difference between engine and model was accessibility
of tubes on the local market. The effect of swirl was
achieved by using of flexible element with the 65 mm
length, width 32 mm and thickness 0.4 mm steel tape
assembled inside the tube. The real view of this
element was presented in Fig. 3.
On the basis of these assumptions the airflow
experimental model in the intake canal was built [17].
The picture of experimental stand was illustrated in Fig. 4.
The value of airflow resistance (Ap) was assigned on
where,
g: gravitational acceleration [rysz];
n: manometer ratio;
I: number of gradations.
The value of velocity was achieved on the basis of
dynamic pressure in two self-orthogonal planes.
Measure points were based on divided field of tube
surface. The diameter oftube was divided by nine rings
with 2 mm width. And so the four measure points for
each ring were achieved.
The airflow velocity (v) for each point was
calculated by the equation:
The average value of airflow velocity for the field of
tube surface was achieved from:
540 The Impact of Flexible Element Inside of intake Canal on Kinematics of Load in Combustion Chamber
1―twisted steel tape.
2―airflow stabilizer; 3―flexible tape; 4―fixed end of tape;
5 twisting ring; 6―Prandtl’s pipe; 7, 8―Recknagla’s
micro manometers; 9―Interface; 10―PC.
and,
where,
A: field of surface of orthogonal canal intersection;
Ay: field of surface for ?―ring;
N: number of the ring;
Vai+4 airflow velocity for the successive n―ring and
measure point;
dy: outside diameter for ?―ring;
dy: inside diameter for n―ring.
3. Results and Discussion
The research concerned to the assessment of impact
of flexible geometry canal on airflow velocity and flow
resistance. Also changing of airflow extreme of
velocity positioning was important for evaluation of
velocity profile. As it was mentioned, the steel tape was
a flexible element ofintake canal. One end of tape was
fixed to the tube by the first ring, but the second end of
tape could change his position by the moving second
ting. In this way, steel tape was twisted. The second
ring was able to make steel length compensation too.
The angle of tape twist was from 0 + 24 deg. however
obtained average velocities were from 3.5 + 9.2 m/s.
The composition of experimental research results
concerned to the assessment of airflow resistance by
average velocity and the angle of tape twist were
presented in Fig. 5.
allows writing very important conclusion. The results
show that the use of flexible element of intake canal
has no significant impact on airflow resistance and the
airflow resistance is even less than for the clear air
filter flow. The difference between the lowest and the
highest resistant value for the tape twist 24 deg for
achieved airflow velocity was only a bit more than 5 Pa,
while the measure deviation of airflow resistance was
0.96 Pa.
These results are very promising for achieved
change of airflow velocity profile for the cross
intersection. Suitable velocity profile can help to
deliver cylinder load without the meeting with valve
head what impact the decrease of turbulence intensity.
It will cause of in engine filling loses during
intake stroke.
On the basis of results presented in Fig. 6 we can see
that by the change of angle tape’s twist, the change of
airflow velocity profile was achieved. It was very
effective for the angle of tape twist 24 deg There the
two of extreme for velocity profile next to inside tube’s
walls appeared. This experiment can be very useful for
implementation of flexible intake canal for air inflow to
combustion chamber to the piston engines. In this way,
we can get not significant increase of flow resistance
(about 7%). Suitable positioning of flexible element
inside intake canal for intake valves has a positive impact
on effect of load swirl penetration from intake’s canal
to the combustion chamber.
It will be very useful for the mixture preparation.
On the composition of speed profile (Fig. 6) the
The Impact of Flexible Element inside of Intake Canal on Kinematics of Load in Combustion Chamber 541
Fig. 5 The airflow resistance (Ap) by average airflow
velocity (5 ) and different angle of twist tape () and dry
5 [ws]
twe mutually perpendiculars planes inside the intake canal:
1―the highest of airflow velocity (11.2 m/s).
displacement of the minimum from the center was
achieved. The cause of this was unexpected not axial
deformation of tape during the twist―What will be
involved during the next experimental research.
In Fig. 7, the change of airflow speed profile during
inlet to combustion chamber was illustrated. There we
can see positive interaction of swirl from intake canal,
which displaced of center of intake airflow to the center
of cylinder. It will be very helpful from the points of
view of the mixture preparation and combustion
process.
Fig. 7 The view of change of airflow velocity profile
during inlet to the cylinder for paraliel canal: k-k―intake
canal axis; c-￠―cylinder axis; a― measurement point
location; 1―Prandt’s pipe; 2―micre manometer; 3 一
measurement axis.
4. Conclusions
On the basis of experimental research results, the
conclusions re reached that implementation of
geometrically flexible element of intake canal has no
significant impact on the flow resistance (even less
than impact of air filter); the velocity of airflow and the
angle of tape twist have impact on the kind of velocity
profile change; the change of airflow velocity profile
can be a cause of decrease of turbulence from valve
head and effect of load swirl during filling of
combustion chamber has impact on achievement of
better condition of mixture preparation (mixture more
homogeneous).
