亚特兰蒂斯号返航
美国航天飞机亚特兰蒂斯号9月8日在肯尼迪航天中心升空,成功地执行了一次国际空间站飞行任务。在飞行了11天19小时10分钟后,它已于美国东部时间9月20

国际空间站 航天飞机 飞行任务 宇航员 肯尼迪 恒星 服务舱 俄罗斯 蓄电池 升空  

CLC number: TB33 Document code: A Article ID:1005-1120(2013>04-0328-07
INTRODUCTION
In the past years ceramic materials have be-
come increasingly important because these mate-
rials combine the advanced behavior of ceramics
such as high strength,high strength at elevated
temperature and wearability with a non-brittle
stress-strain behavior, However, ceramic com-
posites are energetically prone to the formation of
multiple matrix cracks prior to complete laminate
failure. This, combined with the inherent com-
plexities and stochastic nature of failure in non-
homogeneous materials, makes the modeling of
ceramic matrix composites (CMCs) quite diffi-
cult. Models have been presented by several au-
thors to predict the critical stress at which the
matrix cracks initiates[rs31、In order to explain the
Website of on-line first:http: / www. cnki. net/detail/32. 1
Foundation items: Supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (51075204,51105195) ; the Aeronau-
tical Science Foundation of China (2011ZB52024),
Received date: 2011-10-28; revision received date: 2012-02-17
Corresponding author: Gao Xiguang, Associate Professor, E-mail: gaoxiguang@ nuaa, edu. cn,
stochastic feature of matrix cracking, Crutin et
al. performed the study based on the statistic
method", Trying to simulate the whole re-
sponse of ceramic composites, Solti?! performed
the study based on the shear lag method. Howev-
er the shear lag method is too simple to calculate
the microscopic stress field exactly. In addition to
the model proposed by Solti, other models based
on the continuum damage mechanics were pro-
posed[rl which were however experiential.
In this paper,a comprehensive model rela-
ting the macro and micro response of unidirec-
tional fiber toughened CMCs is proposed under
tensile loading. The model describes the longitu-
dinal strain response of C/SiC composite through-
out the entire tensile test,taking into account all
relevant damage. The mechanisms governing the
389. V. 20121226.1652.011. html (2012-12-26 16.52).
non-linear response of the composite are the ma-
trix cracking, fiber/matrix interface debonding
and fiber fracture. The model is based on the
multi-scale process[IL131 and is solved by the finite
element method(FEM).
1 FEM-BASED MULTI-SCALE
APPROACH
Considering a composite wherein the micro-
structure is periodically distributed in the axis di-
rections (Fig. 1), where the representative vol-
ume element (RVE) used to construct the period-
ic array is highlighted. In the framework of Su-
quet L the displacements are decomposed as
follows
where X=(X,,X,,X;) is the macroscopic (glob-
al) coordinate, X 一 (xl,Xay, s 》the displacement,
5s the global strain, u; the fluctuating displace-
ment,
Fig.1 Composite material with periodic microstructure
The global strain and stress are defined as
the average of the local strain and stress within
RVE, shown as
If the effect of body force is ignored, the vir-
tual work principle has the following form
where stands for the domain of RVE, and S, the
stress boundary.
For the linear material, the constitutive
equation 1s
Substitution of Eq. (4) into Eq. (3) gives
that
The Cauchy infinitesimal strain tensor is de-
fined as
Substitution of Eq. (1) into Eq. (6) gives that
E万=昌邑翼+e;C7》
where
辜缅=告(z夏i'j一卜一z;j'乏)(8)
Substitution of Egs. (1,7) into Eq. (5) gives
that
The global strain keeps constant in the
process of deformation. Therefore the variation of
sy is zero. Eq. (9) becomes
The domain 1s discretized into a set of ele-
ments and the shape function“N* is defined on
each element. Then Eq. (10) becomes
Then the fluctuating displacement and varia-
tion of fluctuating displacement are approximated
by linear combinations of their nodal values and
shape functions, namely
Then the fluctuating strain becomes
where
Combination of Eqs. (11―13) gives that
辜〕j′ST言Z`/′】(箩′z〕刍【'ds(15)
Simplification of Eq. (15) gives that
where
If the periodic boundary conditions are em-
ployed, the relation between global strains and
nodal values of fluctuating displacement are given
by the solution of Eq. (16), which has the follow-
ing form
“宏一区Cnpnnem十[(18)
where “ 七 Cum is the component of a four-order
tensor and decided by the material properties and
the shape of element, ‘UZ the component of a two-
order tenser and decided by the stress boundary
conditions.
The integral is performed in each element.
Then global stress becomes
where ‘cy is the average strain of element and de-
fined as
Substitution of Eq. (12) into Eq. (20) gives that
Then the global stress becomes
Substitution of Eq. (18) into Eq. (22) gives
that
Simplification of Eq. (23) gives that
where
Eq. (25) gives the formulation of effective
elastic tenser of material.
2 DAMAGE MECHANISMS AND
MODELING
In CMCs continuous cylindrical fibers are
embedded in a high performance ceramic matrix
which is typically some derivatives (oxide, ni-
tride, or carbide) of silicon, aluminum, titanium
or zirconium. An example is C/SiC CMCs which
embed small diameter carbide fibers into a carbo-
rundum matrix. CMCs exhibit a remarkable in-
crease in toughness compared with their mono-
lithic counterparts.
The degree of toughening exhibited by CMCs
is a function of the strength of the interface, the
frictional of shear resistance within debonded re-
gions and the strength of the matrix and fiber. In
order to describe the train response of CMCs un-
der a tensile test, three damage mechanisms
which are micro-cracking of tmatrix,fiber/matrix
interface debonding and fiber fracture are em-
ployed in this model. The model consists of a rec-
tangular array of perfectly aligned fibers in a ma-
trix (Fig. 1). The thickness of the interphase be-
tween fiber and matrix is assumed to be negli-
gible.
2.1 Matrix failure
Previous work on unidirectional fiber tough-
ened CMCs has indicated that during tensile
stressing matrix cracks develop into more or less
periodic arrays, with a characteristic spacing.
The proposed model assumes the cracks to be
equidistant and spanning the entire cross section
of the material. The crack distance L is deter-
mined by the critical matrix strain energy
(CMSE) approach [i4151、 In general, the CMSE
criterion states that matrix cracking at any strain
level e with the average crack spacing of 工 and a
fiber/matrix length d (Fig. 2) will occur when
the matrix strain energy is equal to its critical val-
ues rm Le,
U =Ucm 27
in the matrix at the critical composite stress, o..
That means U,, keeps constant and equals to 厂 .
at any stress lever which is greater than go.
However, the initial crack spacing, 止 x at 5 二
Oc? Must be determined for the CMSE failure cri-
terion. For the current analysis, the initial crack
spacing is chosen such that the strain energy of
the damaged configuration is “close” to the strain
energy in the undamaged configuration U,,. For
example, the deviation is three percent (i. e.
U 二 0. 97LJ ), [LTuo is the matrix strain energy
calculated by
where S is the area of matrix, E, the elastic
modulo of matrix, E, the elastic modulo of com-
posite,which is
E.=vEi+v,En (29)
where Vt ? Uy are the volume fraction of the fiber
and matrix. For the present study, a constant de-
viation of one percent is used for all cases, that is
Uecm 一 0. 99U no (30)
2.2 Interface debonding
As matrix cracks form within the composite,
they can also induce interface debonding. These
usually result from the large stress fields near the
matrix crack-tip. Since the debonding is in reality
a crack which propagates along the fiber/matrix
interface, the extent of debonding can be esti-
mated using classical fracture mechanics tech-
niquesn5-18],However,to avoid the complexities
which accompany such approaches,a simple and
more common approach is to employ a maximum
stress criterion in which the debonding occurs
whenever the interface shear stress exceeds the
ultimate bond strength of the interface,
rult[119“201、 万 he parameter rut is assumed to be a
material constant, and, if known, the extent of
interface debonding can be determined by ensu-
ring that the maximum shear along the interface
never exceeds this maximum amount, i.e.
Ti (x) max ― Tul 3D)
The shear stress in the debonding region is typi-
cally assumed to be constant and governed by
Coulomb friction with magnitude 7; [20211.
2.3 Fiber fracture
The percentage of fracture fibers, f, in
CMCs is typically determined using some type of
statistical failure criterion. The most common ap-
proach is to use a two-parameter Weibull distri-
bution like the following.
苋=1一f:xp{(r量)′′'}_】(32)
where ￠, is the characteristic fiber strength and m
the tradition Weibull modulus. From Eq. (32), a
corresponds to a survival probability of 0. 37%.
The shape and scaling parameters, m and a,? may
be determined by fitting empirical data; however,
their solution is somewhat involved since the vari-
ation in f versus d cannot be solved directly.
2.4 Simulation of damage process
The modeling process is divided into four
steps: -
(1) Before damage developing, the compos-
ite is represented by a perfect RVE (Fig. 3 (a)).
At this step, the material is elastic, and the glob-
al behavior is described by Eq. (29).
(2) When the matrix cracking occurs and the
interface is perfect, the configuration of RVE is
presented by Fig. 3 (b). At this step, the crack
space is determined by
U(广)二口.(33)
(3) In the presence of matrix cracking and
partially debonded interfaces, the composite is
described by a corresponding RVE with a matrix
crack and a partially debonding interface
(Fig.3 (￠)). The crack space and debonding
length are determined by
Un (Lyd) =Uims tmx (Lyd) 二 ru: (34)
where d denotes the debonding length of inter-
face, and ruk the shear strength of the perfect in-
terface.
(4) When d is close to L/2, the configura-
tion of RVE is presented by Fig. 3 (d). In this
case, the behavior of the composite is dominated
by
at ― fevie Efee=0 (35)
where g; denotes the fiber stress while v; the vol-
ume fraction of fiber.
(a) Perfect RVE (b) RVE with a matrix crack
Fig. 3 Configurations of RVE at each damage state
3 FINITE ELEMENT RESULTS
AND DISCUSSION
The constituent properties used for the simu-
lation are summarized in Table 1. RVE is loaded
by uniaxial tensile stress in fiber direction. The
initial linear elastic behavior ends because of the
crack initiation in the matrix and the debonding of
interface.
Table 1 Material property data of C/SiC
the fiber fracture occurs, Then there is a reduc-
tion of the elastic coefficients of the fiber. The
experimentally determined points[2 and simula-
ted results are given in Fig. 4, where the range
between A and B is linear because RVE is per-
fect. For higher loading of RVE, matrix cracking
initiates and the interface debonding occurs (B-
C). In the range between C and D, the matrix
cracks saturate because the matrix cannot receive
enough energy from fiber since the interface
debonding. In this range interface debonding is the
only damage mechanism which dominates the be-
havior of the material. As load increases, the in-
terface debonding length approaches L/2 and the
fiber fracture dominates the mechanics behavior
of the composite (D-E). The curves of matrix
crack space and interface debonding length which
are calculated by the model are shown in Fig. 5.
along with experimental values
4 CONCLUSION
A FEM-based multi-scale approach is pro-
posed to simulate the non-linear mechanical be-
havior of ceramic matrix composite. The present
results suggest that:
the model proposed in this paper is fit quite well
with the experience.
(2) Fiber reinforced CMC is an approximate
linear composite if there is no damage. The stiff-
ness of CMC declines when the damage appears.
(3) The matrix cracking, interface debond-
ing and fiber fracture are the basic damage mech-
anism of ceramic composites, When the external
load exceeds the critical stress, matrix cracking
initiates and then the interface debonding occurs.
4) The matrix cracks saturate because the
matrix cannot receive enough energy from fiber
because of the interface debonding. In this range
interface debonding is the only damage mecha-
nism which dominates the material behavior .
(5) As load increases, the interface debond-
ing length approaches half of the distance between
adjacent matrix cracks, and the fiber fracture will
be the main factor affecting the mechanics behav-
ior of the composite.
