光纤陀螺光学器件的空间辐射效应及防护技术（英文）
针对光纤陀螺用光学器件在空间辐射环境下受电离损伤和位移损伤影响性能下降的问题,分别分析了光纤、SLD光源、PIN-FET探测器的空间辐射效应。为保证光纤陀螺在空间的工作性能,从被动屏蔽和主动加固两方面讨论了光学器件的辐射防护技术。考虑到不同光学器件对不同类型辐射损伤的敏感性以及航天器载荷对重量的严格要求,从电离损伤屏蔽和位移损伤屏蔽两方面对屏蔽厚度进行了优化设计。通过对各光学器件辐射效应机理的分析,讨论了提高光学器件本身抗辐射能力的主动加固技术。

光学器件 辐射效应 辐射防护 光纤陀螺  

测控技术与方法.智能仪器与虚拟仪器技术等方面的研究。
0 Introduction
Since the optical fiber has the advantages of
small size, light weight, flexible structure and anti-
electromagnetic interference, the optical fiber system
in the space environment application attracts an
increasing attention. For instance, the spaceborne fiber
optic gyroscopes (FOG), optical fiber communication
systems,and optical fiber sensing networks have been
a hot topic. However, the performance of the optical
components will degrade in the space radiation
environment. As a result, the performance of the
optical fiber system dropped to some extent. The
investigations of radiation effects on the optical
components and the radiation protection technology
are essential to ensure the system to work properly.
The FOG is a typical optical fiber sensor with
success application. It has the unique advantages in
light weight, low consume, long life and high
reliability which can work well in the space
environment. Radiation effects on optical fiber, super
luminescent diode (SLD) optical source, and PIN-FET
detector module utilized in the FOG are analyzed in
the paper. Furthermore, the anti-radiation hardening
technology of the optical components is discussed.
1 Radiation damage of the optical
components
The space radiation environment is a complicate
and dynamic radiation environment, which includes
many radiation components such as protons, electrons,
heavy ions, and 友 -radiation and <y-radiation caused
by the bremsstrahlung. Different particles interact with
the substances in different physical mechanisms and
lose energy. The radiation damage can be classified
into two kinds by the energy losing effect: ionizing
damage and displacement damage".
1.1 Ionizing damage
When the radiation particles pass through the
optical substance, they interact with the electrons and
the energy is imparted to the electrons of the material.
If the gained energy of the electrons is larger than the
binding energy,the electrons start the depart inside
their track and become the free electrons. Then the
atom becomes a charged ion, which is called the
effect of ionizing radiation. The main product of the
effect is the electron-hole pairs along the traveling
path of the radiation particles.
1.2 Displacement damage
The displacement effect is caused by the collision
of the incident particles with the nucleus of the atom
of the radiation materials. The radiation particles make
elastic collisions with the atom. When the energy of
the radiation particles is high enough, the atom leaves
the position of the crystal lattice and becomes an
interstitial atom. The site of the crystal lattice
becomes a vacancy and form a vacancy-interstitial
pair, which is called displacement effect. These
vacancy-interstitial pairs are called Frenkel defect,
which damage the potential energy of the crystal
lattice and form a new electron energy level in the
forbidden band? The displacement damage will influence
the lifetime of the minority-carrier and the mobility of
the carrier.
2 Radiation effect of the optical
components
2.1 Ionizing damage
The radiation interacts with the optical fiber
material and produces the ionizing damage and the
displacement damage. The ionizing damage represents
the ionization of the molecule of the material caused
by the radiation and generates the electron-hole pairs.
The electrons and the holes are captured by the
eigendefect precursor or the displacement damage
induced by the radiation of the material to form
additional defects with specific structures. The defects
result in the light absorption and called "color center”
accordingly. The radiation interacts with the substance
and yields the light absorption, namely radiation
induced attenuation effect (RIA).
The relationship between the RIA of polarization-
maintaining fiber and the radiation doses is shown in
Fig.1. The more radiation doses of the fiber, the more
color center and the light absorption producing.
Fig.1 Relationship between RIA and radiation dose of one kind
PM fiber
2.2 Optical source
The SLD has the advantages of broad band, high
output intensity,short coherent length,and is widely
employed in the FOG. The main factors affecting the
performance of SLD is the displacement damage
caused by the protons and the heavy ions. The defect
energy level induced by the displacement damage in
the semiconductor energy band structure of SLD can
be regarded as the non-radioactive recombination
center. It results in the non-radiative recombination of
the carrier, decreases the luminous efficiency and
reduces the optical power of the source. The
performance degradation of the SLD can be evaluated
by the Rose-Barnes equation:
‖贵〕″”l|-mke1)
where po is the optical power of the source before the
radiation, p, is the optical power of the source after
the radiation, R is the number between 2/3 and 1, 7,
is the lifetime of the minority-carrier before the
radiation, K, is the lifetime damage constant, 不 is the
proton flux. The optical power of the source reduced
dramatically on the condition of proton radiationl31.
Hence, we should utilize the anti-radiation hardening
technology in the space application.
2.3 Photo detector
Since the performance of the FOG is restricted
by the noise of the detector, the PIN ~FET detector
module is used, the main influence induced by the
effect of ionizing radiation is the increase of the dark
current. The comparison of the noise characteristics of
the PIN-FET before and after the radiation of y-ray
with the dose of 200 Gy is illustrated in Fig.2.
Although the dark current increases slightly, the noise
characteristic is not significantly influenced as the dark
current is much less than the photo current. The
performance of the PIN is mainly affected by the
displacement damage, which decreases the lifetime of
the minority-carrier and reduces the diffusion length
and the quantum efficiency of the PIN. Besides, the
damage of depletion region increases the intermediate
energy levels and the generated charge carriers lead to
the increase of the dark current and the leakage
current.
optical components
The radiation protection is indispensable for the
optical components to guarantee the performance of
the FOG in the space environment. The radiation
protection can be considered in two aspects which are
employing radiation shielding to decrease the radiation
dose of the optical components and improving the
workmanship of the optical components to raise the
anti-radiation level of the components.
3.1 Radiation shielding
The radiation dose level can be reduced by
shielding. The principle is demonstrated as follows:
The charged particles passing through the shielding
substance deposits as a result of loss of energy. When
the thickness of the shielding material is larger than
the range of the particles, the incident particle will
settle in the material and the radiation dose of the
fiber can be reduced.
3.1.1 Ionizing radiation dose shielding
The RIA is mainly influenced by the ionizing
damage and the increase of the dark current of the
detector is affected by the total dose of the ionizing
radiation. So, the shielding of the ionizing radiation
dose is an important problem that needs attention. The
design of spacecraft makes great demands on the
weight of the loads. Therefore, we must look for an
optimal solution between the radiation shielding and
the load weight. The shielding effect of total radiation
dose for a five years mission at sun-synchronous orbit
of 900km calculated by the space radiation environment
model is shown in Fig.3. The total radiation dose is
illustrated in Fig.3. Since the shielding effect of the
material is considerate for the electrons,the ionizing
radiation dose decreases rapidly with the increase in
the thickness of the material. When the thickness
increases to 4 mm, the total ionizing radiation dose
decreases three orders. However, as the thickness
continually increases, total ionizing radiation dose is
constrained by the protons. The decrease of the total
dose becomes very slow because of the weak
preventing ability of the material to the high-energy
protons. In summary, the shielding substance with an
equivalent thickness of 4 mm Al material can shield
most radiation dose without raising much weight,
which is suited for the shielding of the components
sensitive to ionizing radiation dose.
3.1.2 Displacement damage dose shielding
The reduction of the optical power of SLD and
the responsibility of PIN -FET are mainly influenced
by the displacement damage. Thus, the shielding of
the displacement damage is an important problem that
needs attention. The shielding effect of displacement
damage dose for a five years mission at sun-synchronous
orbit of 900 km is displayed in Fig.4. Like the total
ionizing dose, the displacement damage dose decreases
dramatically with the increase of the shielding
thickness at relatively thin thickness. The displacement
damage is reduced over one order by the Al shielding
with 2 mm thickness and the shielding effect become
gradually weaker with the increase of the thickness.
The equivalent thickness of 2 mm Al material can be
employed to shield the components sensitive to
displacement damage due to the purpose of declining
the influence of the displacement damage dose on
optical components and minimizing the weight.
mission at sun-synchronous orbit of 900 km
3.2 Active hardening
3.2.1 Optical fiber
The active hardening technologies for the optical
fiber are classified into seven kinds: (1) minimizing the
doped core of the fiber to produce the fiber with pure
silicon core and fluorine-doped cladding; (2) utilizing
fluorine doped core and cladding to diminish the
randomness and the stress of the Si―O bond; (3)
Producing nitrogen-doped core by substituting nitrogen for
germanium to enhance the ability of anti-radiation??; (4)
hydrogen loading because hydrogen is much active at
room temperature and easy to react with silicon or
oxygen dangling bond of the atom network terminal to
prevent the formation of the nonbridging oxygen hole
center (NBOHC)?; (5) pre-irradiation; (6) photofading;
(7) thermal discoloration. Among them, fluorine-doped
method will reduce the refractive index of the fiber
core that is to the disadvantage to form the high
refractive index difference between the core and the
cladding. It is unfavorable for the fiber loop of the
FOG. The nitrogen-doped fiber has higher chloride
concentration that slightly increases the loss of long
wavelength, In addition, the craftsmanship of the
nitrogen-doped fiber is not mass-produced and the
commercial products are rare. Although hydrogen
loading prevents the formation of the NBOHC and
enhances the ability of the anti-radiation at optical
wavelengths, the hydroxyl ion levels of the fiber are
increased and cause the absorption peaks within
infrared waveband that is inapplicable for the fiber
loop of the FOG within infrared waveband. The pre-
irradiation can reduce the variation of the optical loss
of the fiber, but the initial loss is very high. The
thermal discoloration technology is not easily
enforceable. The photofading technology can enhance
the ability of the anti-radiation and the experimental
system for FOG based on photofading technology is
developed at present'??!, The optical fiber with pure
silicon core is considered as the fiber with best anti-
radiation capability?. Hence, the fiber with pure silicon
core is utilized as a means of anti-radiation hardening.
In summary, the approaches including photofading
technology and employing fiber with pure silicon core
and fluorine-doped cladding to ensure the refractive
index difference of the core and cladding is applicable to
the anti-radiation hardening for the fiber loop of FOG.
3.2.2 Optical source
According to Eq. (1), the value of 7,K,? on the
right of formula should be as small as possible so as
to reduce the influence of the radiation on the optical
power of the source. If the lifetime 7, of the minority-
carrier before the radiation can be reduced, we can
tealize the radiation hardening of SLD source. In the
researches about the radiation hardening of light
emitting diode(LED), reference[11] shows that heavily
doped in the emission region makes LED operate
under the condition of high current density and reduce
7, which makes LED insensitive to the radiation,
Considering the similarity between SLD and LED, the
parameters of the SLD can be changed to decrease
the lifetime of the minority-carriers to realize anti-
radiation hardening of SLD.
The SLD includes SLD of double-heterostructure
and SLD of quantum well structure. Since the active
region of SLD with quantum well is composed of
many quantum wells, the confinement effect of the
quantum well to the carriers rises substantially
compared with the active region and the radiation
recombination rate increases drastically. It makes the
radiation induced non-radiation recombination unable
to compete against radiation recombination. Therefore,
SLD of quantum well structure has more anti-radiation
ability than SLD of double-heterostructure, which is
demonstrated in reference [9]. In conclusion, the
anti-radiation ability can be enhanced by using SLD
of quantum well, which is an effective anti-radiation
hardening technology.
3.2.3 Photo detector
The effect of ionizing radiation yields the
electron-hole pairs within the semiconductor material
of the detector. In contrast, the optical signal
generates the electron-hole pairs only in the active
region of PN junction of the detector. So, the
radiation sensitivity can be reduced by decreasing the
volume of active region and passive region. As 巩 - V
semiconductor has higher absorption coefficient, the
active region can be thinner without degrading the
responsibility of the detector and the PIN based on III
-~ V semiconductor has better anti-radiation capability.
The heterostructure can decrease the volume of the
passive region and enhance the anti-radiation ability
accordingltyL21. The noise characteristic of the PIN-~FET
module in the FOG is illustrated in Fig.3. The
detector utilizes Il -V semiconductor material and has
the double-heterostructure. So it has better anti-
ionizing radiation ability.
As the displacement effect induces the defects in
the semiconductor crystal lattices, the minority-carriers
caused by the optical signal increase the risk of
recombination before they are collected by the
electrode and reduce the responsibility consequently 31.
Thus, the thinner depletion region of the detector,the
better anti-radiation performancet,
4 Conclusion
The optical fiber, SLD source and PIN -~-FET
detector module of the FOG are influenced by the
space radiation effect in the space radiation
environment. The RIA is increased due to the
formation of the radiation induced color center in the
optical fiber. The performance of SLD is influenced
by the displacement damage. The optical power of the
source is decreased because of the displacement
damage induced by the protons and heavy ions. The
space radiation effect causes the increase of the dark
current and reduction of the responsibility of the PIMN-
FET. The above-mentioned space radiation effect of
the optical components will affect the SNR of the
signal received by the detector and degrade the
measurement precision of the FOG accordingly.
The technology of combining active anti-radiation
hardening and the passive radiation shielding is
proposed to diminish the space radiation effect of the
optical components. Considering the strict requirements
on the weight of the spacecraft load, the shielding
thickness of the components sensitive to ionizing
damage and displacement damage are optimized. Based
on the analysis about the space radiation effect of the
optical components, the anti-radiation hardening
technique is presented. The combination of the active
hardening and passive shielding is favorable for proper
operation of the FOG in the space radiation environment.
