地基雷达探测中的空间碎片微弱信号检测技术概况
空间碎片的日益增多。已对航天活动构成严峻威胁。空间碎片的精确监测是对航天员和飞行器实施安全防护的重要前提，也对空间微小碎片探测能力提出了更高要求。文章对国外地基雷达探测空间碎片现状，以及对在雷达微弱信号检测技术方面比较常用的以信号处理为基础的长时间积累检测技术和基于时频分析的雷达微弱信号检测技术研究现状进行了综述。

信号检测技术 空间碎片 雷达探测 地基 航天活动 安全防护 探测能力 时频分析  

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1673-1379.2013.03.001
0 Introduction
The Moon is commonly considered as a heavenly body
without significant atmosphere or global magnetic fields and
in absence of any ionosphere. Unlike magnetized bodies
(Earth, Jupiter, Saturn, etc.) that would interact with the solar
wind, the Moon, when it periodically immerses in the
interplanetary medium, would act as an obstacle that directly
absorbs the solar wind particles that impact its sunlit surface,
creating a downstream plasma-void cavity left behind it for
several lunar radii, which is referred to as the ‘lunar wake’t!],
Most of these basic views about the solar wind-Moon
interactions have been formed from early plasma/magnetic
field experiments onboard Explorer and the Apollo
missionsP3]、 Further detailed properties of structured lunar
plasma in the lunar wake were explored by the WIND
satellite, It has been believed that the solar wind electrons
can approach the lunar nightside region in ahead of the ions,
because the electrons are lighter, more mobile, and have a
greater thermal speed. The electron-rich status of the lunar
wake yields a bipolar (inward) electric field at the wake
into the near-Moon wake by their Larmor motion in the
direction perpendicular to the IMFU1
Another significant feature of the lunar plasma
environment is the scattering/reflection of the solar wind
protons at the lunar dayside surface. When these reflected
particles come back to the solar wind, they immediately
encounter the convective electric field and are accelerated
and picked-up by the solar wind to obtain at most 9 times of
the original kinetic energy'?. This acceleration, which is
called ‘self-pickup’ process, occurs on the dayside of the
Moon. The accelerated pickup ions are observed to gyrate
within the lunar noon meridian plane when the IMF B,
dominates[?-14 and some ions with higher energy make a
large gyro-radius motion and even enter the lunar wake
directly from the dayside!'?, Those pickup ions around the
Moon are found to cover a distances of up to 20,000 km from
the lunar surface!’ Recently, Chang’E-1(CE-1) observational
data shows that the pickup ions near the Moon exhibit three
dimensional asymmetric properties under various IMF
(:′o薹](:囊i丨二i()_:ls[】^.]- Nevertheless, the destination of the
self-pickup protons has never been clearly known.
As the first Chinese lunar probe, CE-1 is a three-axis
stabilized lunar polar orbiter at an altitude of about 100 一
200 km with a period of about 2 hours. Two identical solar
wind ion detectors(SWIDs) were onboard to measure the
particle environment around the Moon!'?), Each SWID is a
hemispheric-cap-shaped electrostatic analyzer. Its field-of-
view (FOV) is 6.7cx180“ and a wide slit of 180° is divided
into 12 sectors. Each sector has 48 energy channels
sweeping from 0.04 keV/q to 20keV/q quasi-logarithmically.
The FOV slit of the SWID-B looks up to the space and
locates in the orbit plane, and the FOV of SWID-A is
perpendicular to the current orbit plane and also space-facing
(see Figure 3 in [16]). Thus, the SWID-B can receive an ion
flux of sufficient intensity to determine its normalized
distribution function, and the SWID-A can detect the full ion
flux once in one revolution. In this paper, we reported the
CE-1 observations of double ion beams in the slow solar
wind. The solar wind pickup ions accelerated by the
convective electric field at the lunar dayside surface and the
solar wind ions accelerated by the bipolar electric field at the
wake boundary were analyzed in detail. Such two kinds of
the solar wind features were observed by the SWIDs many
times during the whole mission.
dayside
On Dec 30, 2007, the Moon was located in the solar
wind at ~3.0/-60.0/1.4 Rg (Earth radii) in the geocentric solar
ecliptic (GSE) coordinate system (as shown in Figure 1(b)). The
CE-1 spacecraft was at ~200 km altitude at this time. Figure
1(a) shows the satellite orbit and the geometries of the
SWID-B slit and its 12 sectors. The sector 1(S1) points 15°
below the horizon and the sector 2(S2) always directs along
the horizon. The inclination angle is increased by 15° for
each sector. The orbit plane is ~4° deviated from the
noon-midnight plane in this event. The data in Figure 1(c)
shows the typical ion flux obtained in two orbit periods. The
superposed energy spectra of ions is collected by all
available sectors (S1~ S12, except S9 and S12). The
two-hour orbital period of CE-1 produces similar signatures
in the energy-time when the CE-1 is on the
dayside, moving from the South Pole to the North Pole via the
noon-equator. Figure 1(d) displays the positions of the CE-1 in
the selenocentric solar ecliptic (SSE, with the longitude being
matked in blue and the latitude in red) coordinate and the
evolution of the solar zenith angle (SZA) of the satellite.
When the longitude is ~0°, the CE-1 is orbiting along the noon
meridian; when the latitude is about -90°(+90°) and SZA is
~90°, the satellite is located at the South (North) Pole. Figure
1(e) shows the IMF data observed by ACE satellite at the first
Lagrange point. The IMF data is plotted by a time shift
UHEUUU Ul auuul UU LILUVWEGS。 Luring ume 10ocuscu ume
interval, the B, component dominates in most of the time.
Dec 30, 2007
(a) CE-1 orbit and the observational geometry of SWID-B in the
selenocentric solar ecliptic(SSE) coordinate system
(b) Position of the Moon in the geocentric solar ecliptic (GSE)
coordinate system
(c) The summed ions energy-time spectrum of all 10 sectors
(except sector 9 and 12)
(d) The latitude (red) and longitude (blue) of the in
the SSE frame and the evolution of solar zenith angle(SZA) (green)
(￠) The interplanetary magnetic field (in GSE) shifted from L1
point measurement (ACE/MAG data)
Fig. 1 SWID-B observation of solar wind double ion beams from 03:00
to 07:30 UT on Dec 30, 2007
The ion energy spectrum shows that two distinct
populations are detected in the lunar dayside surface. One
major population is the incident solar wind particles (see
Figure 1(c)). The bulk velocity calculated from the energy
spectrum of the solar wind is about 370 km/s, which is
consistent with the shifted solar wind data from the ACE
satellite. It has two energy peaks of almost constant values of
~0.7 keV and ~1.4 keV, which can be identified as H and
Another ion population appears first at the latitude of ~30° in
the southern hemisphere near the noon meridian. The energy
of this population continues to increase as the satellite moves
northward. Similar accelerated ion populations were also
observed by the CE-1 on May 28, 2008, which were
confirmed as the pickup ions by the test particle tracking
calculations”), At the North Pole, the energy reached its
maximum of ~4 keV, about 6 times of the solar wind 玖
energy, which was consistent with previous observations by
Kaguyalf、These accelerated pickup protons were also
reported by Nishino et al, and found at a lower altitude of
100 km, During the time interval, the IMF points to
persistently duskward(see Figure 1(e)). Thus, the solar wind
convective electric field is northward. Once the solar wind
ions are scattered/reflected from the lunar dayside surface,
they move backward against the solar wind and northward
along the convective electric field, thus being accelerated.
The ions detected in the regions close to the North Pole may
have experienced the accelerations for a longer time, so that
the pickup ion energies are increased when they move
toward the north pole.
Figure 2 shows a sample of two-dimensional ion velocity
distributions on the orbital plane by using observations from
all 10 available sectors of the SWID-B within a 30s interval,
The velocity distribution is at the location of latitude of 30°N
of the dayside, marked by t2 in Figure 1. The axis of x(z) is
approximately directed to the Sun (z axis in SSE), and the
white arrow points to the lunar center. The color code
indicates the averaged flux,and the four white dash circles
correspond to energies of 0.75keV 1.5keV, 3.0keV and 6.0keV,
respectively. The incident solar wind with double peak
components is clearly seen to move against the x-axis at bulk
velocity of ~370 km/s. The pickup ions distribute around the
horizontal line and can be easily distinguished from the solar
wind population. The energies of the pickup ions are closely
related to the particle incident angle, identified by the angle
between the particle incident direction and the white arrow. It
suggests that the distribution of the pickup ions is sensitively
angle-dependent. However, since there was no mass
spectrometer onboard the CE-1 spacecraft, it was not sure
whether those pickup ions were all protons.
plane with 30s averaged near point t2 in Figure 1
2 Solar wind ions accelerated in the lunar
wake boundary
observed the solar wind flows inside the wake boundary
when the solar wind came directly into the FOV of the
SWID-B. Figure 3(a) shows the superposed energy-time
spectrograms of ions during two orbit periods. The He?"
population was again identified in the solar wind during this
time interval. The protons show an energy peak at ~0.6 keV,
corresponding to the shifted solar wind speed of 340 km/s
observed by the ACE spacecraft. Figure 3(b) shows the
positions of the CE-1 in the SSE and the evolution of the
SZA of the satellite, and Figure 3(c) shows the shifted IMF
data observed by ACE satellite. The IMF changed from
being +B, dominant to being -B, dominant at ~12:27 UT.
During the time interval, the CE-1 spacecraft passed the
north wake border (lat. 62°N) between sunlit and shaded
regions twice: ~11:15 UT and ~13:25 UT (denoted by two
dash lines in Figure 3). In the first orbit crossing, the IMF
was +B, dominant. A gradual decrease of the proton energy
from ~0.6 keV to ~0.3 keV was observed inside the wake
boundary between 11:15 UT and 11:20 UT (lat. 46°N).
During the second orbit period, the IMF changed to being
-B dominant. The energies of the entering solar wind
protons inside the wake boundary gradually increased from
~0.6keV to ~1.0keV between 13:25 UT and 13:30 UT (lat.
46°N). These observations show that the solar wind protons
lose (gain) kinetic energy in the northern hemisphere around
the wake boundary as they intrude deep into the wake from
the sunlit (shaded) border.
(a) The energy-time spectrogram measured by SWID-B between
10:00 and 14:00 UT on Dec 30, 2007;
(b) The CE-1 position in GSE;
(c) The IMF;
(end (g) Sector! data snd the IMF data (-B, dominated) for the
Fig. 3 Time yedits data showing the acceletstion (deceleration) of
solar wind particles around the lunar wake boundary under the
davmward (duskward) BMF conditions
The observations confirmed the fact that under the slow
solar wind with a similar orbit, the solar wind
horizon), those eatering ions could be detected during the
north wake crossing, ‘which suggests that the
distribution of these accelerated/decelerated ions in the wake
is in ngroew beams. Figures 3(d) and 3(f) show the
measurements in sector 1 during two orbit wake boundary
crossings. fteah be clearly seen that the solar wind He" can
also enter the wake region. But the He?" population intrudes
less deeply than H? with smaller &cceletationdeceletation,
3 Conclusions
incident solar Wind: protons, near the wake
boundary obsérved by the CE-1 spucectaft on Dec 30, 2007,
In this event, both protons and alpha particles were identified
in the slow solar wind. Under the IMF +B, dominant
conditions, the pickup ion energy was increasing as the
spacecraft moved northward. The ion velocity distributions
show that the energy of the pickup ions is closely related to
the particle incident angle relative to the horizontal direction
of the Moon and is sensitively location-dependent. Under the
IMF -H-B8,eonditions,the (accelerated) solar
wind protons intruded deep into the wake from the wake
in the northern hemisphere, while the He
population intended Joss déiepty than. 训 The above observed
kinetic f ave in the solar
wind-Mopt teraction and. the near:Moon plasma
environment.
Acknowledgments
Thank ail the members of the SWIDs work team and
the ACE team for providing the solar wind plasma and IMF
data. This research is sponsored by Nationsal High-
1OCIIDICRKY X55S9ICR and Lreveropment oI vama
(No. 2010AA122205).
[1] Lyon EF, Bridge HS, Binsack J H. Explorer 33 plasma
measurements in the vicinity of the Moon[J], Journal
of Geophysics 1967, 72(23): 6113-6117
[2] Ness N E Interaction of the solar wind with the
Dordrecht: D Reidel Publ Comp, 1972: 159-205
[3] Schubert G Lichtenstein B R. of Moon-
plasma interactions by orbital and surface
experiments{J], Reviews of Geophysics, 1974, 12(4):
592-626
[4] Bosqued J M, Lormant N, Réme H, et al. Moon-solar
wind interactions: first results from the WIND/3DP
23(10): 1259-1262
[5] Trévniek P, Hellinger P Schriver D, et al, Structure of
the lunar wake: two-dimensional hybrid
32(6): L06102
[6] Ogilvie K W, Steinberg J T, Fitzenreiter R 了 et al.
Observations of the lunar plasma wake from the WIND
on 27, 1994{J]. Geophysical
Research Letters, 1996, 23(10): 1255-1258
[71 Nishino M N, Maezawa K, Fujimoto M, et al. Pairwise
energy gain-loss feature of solar wind protons in the
near-Moon wake[J]. Geophysical Letters,
2009, 36(12): L12108
[8] Saito Y, Yokota 8 Tanaka T, 6t al. Solar wind proton
reflection at the lunar low eamergy ion
measurement by MAP-PACE SELENE
35(24): 1.24205
[9] Nishino M 玖 M, Maezawa K, et al.
Solar-wind 佳 e secess deep into the near-Moon
L16103
[10] Wang X D, Bian W, Wang J S, et al. Acceleration of
scattered solar wind protons at the polar terminator of
the Moon: Results from Chang'E-1/SWIDs{J].
Geophysical Research Letters, 2010, 37(7): L07203
[11] Futaana Y Barabash S, Wieser M, et al. Protons in the
near-lunar wake observed by the Sub-keV Atom
Reflection Analyzer on board Chandrayaan-1[J].
Journal of Geophysics Research, 2010, 115(A10):
A10248
[12] Nishino M N, Fujimoto M, Saito Y ct al. Effect of the
solar wind entry into the lunar wake[J},
