基于Pulse系统的飞机噪声测试与评估
飞机噪声测试与评估在民航领域是一个重要的研究课题。基于高精度的信号采集设备和传感器来进行试验测试一直是进行飞机噪声分析的有效方法，基于Pulse测试系统以及CCAR36部，以实际工程问题为例．开发了一套用于飞机噪声适航取证的测量系统和评估软件，对于发展国家大飞机工程，进行飞机噪声适航取证具有重要的现实意义。

PULSE 飞机噪声 适航 CCAR36  

INTRODUCTION
The accurate simulation of vortex-dominated
flow problems is a challenging task in computa-
tional fluid dynamics (CFD) field, like the com-
putation of the wakes of aircraft or rotorcraft.
The vortex-dominated flow problems are always
governed by the unsteady vortex and the interac-
tion of vortical structures, which requires an ac-
curate and efficient numerical method to capture
and preserve vortices,
Several methods have been developed to sim-
ulate the vortex-dominated flows. One approach
often considered to reduce the numerical dissipa-
tion of vortices is to use the higher-order scheme
to compute the fluxes across the cell interfaces,
such as WENO scheme!!’ or discontinuous Galer-
kin (DG) method. Another approach proposed
by Morton and Roe[s1 is the vorticity-preserving
scheme in pure acoustics. The third choice is de-
veloped by Harris,et alr4. They developed an Eu-
lerian vorticity transport solver with adaptive
mesh refinement method for rotorcraft flow field
Foundation item: Supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China(11102179).
Received date: 2013-04-15; revision received date. 2013-07-07 「
Corresponding author: Zhao Ning, Professor, E-mail: Zhacam@nuaa. edu. cn.
analysis.
An efficient compressible Euler equation sol-
ver for vortex-dominated flows is described based
on the adaptive hybrid Cartesian mesh and vortex
identifying method. The framework of the solver
allows the dynamic adaptive mesh refinement
(DAMR) coupled with vortex identifying method
to capture and preserve vortices. The use of finer
mesh with the improved resolution in vorticity re-
gion can efficiently reduce the numerical dissipa-
tion.
1 FINITE VOLUME FORMULA-
TION ON ADAPTIVE HYBRID
CARTESIAN GRID
1.1 Adaptive hybrid Cartesian grid
For CFD simulation, the method of mesh
generation is a critical technique. There are three
main ways to generate the computational mesh:
Structured grid, unstructured grid and adaptive
Cartesian grid. The ultimate objective of each
method for mesh generation is to apply the gener-
ated mesh for the numerical simulation which can
effectively reveal the flow field characteristics and
accurately simulate the flow phenomena. For the
unsteady flows, it will be much better if the mesh
can dynamically be generated and adaptively cap-
ture flow characteristics. Therefore, the adaptive
Cartesian grid method is the suitable choice.
When using Cartesian grid method, however, it
is difficult to treat the immersed boundary, espe-
cially for complex geometry and high Reynold
number turbulence flow problems. To overcome
this difficulty, an adaptive hybrid Cartesian grid
m(三tl′】0(〕!〔……′(…〕 is used for vortex dominated flows.
As shown in Fig, 1, the hybrid Cartesian grid
consists of a body-titted structured mesh in near-
body region and an adaptive Cartesian mesh which
matches the outer boundary of body-fitted grid.
od, the immersed boundary problem is in a single
Cartesian grid and can be avoided by using the
body-fitted mesh in near-body region. Thus
boundary layer can be resolved much better for
′ viscous problem. Meanwhile, the adaptive Carte-
sian mesh can also be used in other computational
domain with the advantages like automatic mesh
generation, and dynamically capturing flow char-
acteristics. Therefore, combining these two me-
shes will be a good choice for simulating flow
problems, especially for vortex-dominated flow
problems like wing-tip vortex problem. Moreo-
ver, the off-body vortex can be more accurately
resolved by dynamic adaptive mesh refinement
method as shown bellow.
For CFD simulations, the accuracy of flow
field can generally be improved by using either
high-order scheme to compute the fluxes across
the cell interfaces (p-refinement) or mesh refine-
ment in the concern part of flow field (h-refine-
ment), In this paper, the latter approach is used
to improve the accuracy of vortex-dominated
flow-fields.
For adaptive Cartesian grids, a quadtree-
based St二l']，l(:′〔l-]I`e[二′"〕 is used to store the mesh infor-
mation of adaptive Cartesian grid. The appealing
advantage of tree-based data structure is easy im-
plementing refinement or coarsening cells,which
leads to facile solution adaptations. For vortex-
dominated flows, the vorticity is a remarkable
flow feature, represented by the curl of velocity.
Therefore, calculating the cur] of velocity in each
cell can identify the vortex in the flow field. To
capture and identify the dynamic vortex in the
flow field, it is essential to perform solution-
based grid adaptations. As mentioned above, the
curl of velocity is used as the adaptation criteria
which is described as
where i=1, 2,00, N, N is the total number of
cells and %; the length scale of cell, V XU is the
curl of velocity and + a constant set as + 一 2. The
standard deviation of the parameter is computed
as
Then the following conditions are used for
grid adaptation.
(1) If vz. 一 q:,cell1 i is flagged for refine-
ment;
(2) Y r。 一 0. 3r.。,cell i is flagged for coarse-
ning,
1.2 Numerical method
Consider the 2-D unsteady compressible
flows governed by Euler equations
where W is the state vector and 异 . the convective
flux. If an arbitrary control volume (2; is consid-
ered, the equation can be spatially discretized as
where m is the interface between cell I and J 3 盂"/["
the number of control volume faces and AS,, the
area of face m, The solution is updated using a
Runge-Kutta explicit time integration procedure.
In the present work, a cell-centered finite
volume solver is developed to solve compressible
Euler equations. The AUSM+? upwind scheme
is used for computing inviscid fluxes. To achieve
a second-order accuracy, a reconstruction of the
assumed solution variation becomes necessary.
Green-Gauss theorem based linear reconstruction
procedure'? is employed to compute gradient in-
formation at the cell centroids and Venkatakrish-
nan’s limitert? is used as a limiter function in order
to prevent the generation of oscillations and spurious
solutions in the regions of high gradients.
The adaptive hybrid Cartesian grid consists
of near body region body-fitted grids and Carte-
. sian meshes. To keep data structure unique, two
issues should be settled. First, a stencil for a hi-
erarchical cell-based quadtree data structure is
shown in Fig. 2. When computing cell I, if we
treat the left edge j as one edge, it may cause
problem of conservation. Therefore, a cell finite
volume method is used to treat the edge j as two
edges. While there are first interface j; between
cell I and its lower level neighboring cell J; and
the second interface j, between cell I and its low-
er level neighboring cell J,. By using this ap-
proach the "hanging node” problem is avoided and
the conservation problem is secured. Secondly, as
shown in Fig. 3, the required connectivity infor-
mation between two meshes should be estab-
lished. An approach similar to that in Ref. [5] is
used to treat the overset region, rather than using
In Fig. 3, interface j and cell I belong to the Car-
tesian grid and cell J belongs to body-fitted grid,
n is the unit normal vector of interface j . To com-
Fig. 2 Stencil of cells in adaptive Cartesian grid
cells I and J as the left and the right side cells,
respectively. For interface j, cell I is given in ad-
vance. However, cell Js defined as a “ donor
cell”, should be obtained by using some search
method. When we use the traditional search
method, which tests every cell to find one cell re-
quired, it will be time-consuming, especially for
3-D problems. Therefore, a "donor cell” search
method based on alternating digital tree (ADT)
technique’? is used, which greatly shortened the
search time,
2 RESULTS
2.1 Accuracy and efficiency study with vortex
propagation problem
To verify the vorticity preserving capability
of the DAMR process, we consider the problem
of vortex convection by a uniform flow. The vor-
tex was proposed by Jiang,et alt’), The computa-
tional domain is taken as [0, 2]]X [0,1], and a
vortex is superposed to the uniform flow and cen-
ters at (x.,y.) =(0.25,0.5). The vortex is de-
scribed as a perturbation to the velocity (u,v), ,
the temperature (T= p/p) and the entropy (S=
IntP/p「 33 of the mean flow and we denote it by
the tilde values
(2,7) =ere?" (sing, 一 cos0)
(′′_麦'′`，莒)=〔_鱼′二__二罢量亘′兰(二′三董三，O)(…′))
where x 一 r/r。: and r= /(x― x.) + {(y―y)?, ￠
indicates the strength of the vortex, a controls the
decay rate of the vortex, andr. is the critical radi-
us of the vortex, p and p refer to the pressure and
the density, respectively, 7 is the ratio of specific
heats, and set as y=1.4. We chose g 二 0. 5, r.=
0.05, a=0. 204 and Ma=1.1 (supersonic flow).
Three different regular Cartesian meshes are
chosen: 100 X 50 《 二 0. 02 ) 200 X 100 ( 卫 二
0.01), 400 X 200 (Ah =0.005), where h is the
length scale of the mesh, and three different
mesh refine times based regular Cartesian mesh
100 X50. Fig. 4(a) shows the total absolute value
of circulation changing with non-dimensional time
(t). Fig. 4(b) refers to the pressure distributions
(Pre) at different time on the centre line y 二 0. 5,
X is the non-dimensional coordinate along x di-
rection. Table 1 presents the loss of total abso-
lute value of circulation at different mesh scale
and mesh refining times. The given results show
that finer mesh scale will be more accurate to cap-
ture the vorticity and the diffusion of vortex will
be decreased. At the same time, if we use the dy-
namic adaptive mesh refinement method by in-
creasing refining times, the diffusion of the vor-
tex can also be decreased.
Table 1 Circulation loss and grid number
h Circulation loss/ % Grid number
0. 02 10. 83 5 000
0. 01 2.19 20 000
0. 005 0. 16 80 000
Refine Time Circulation loss/ % Grid number
1 4. 70 6 300
2 1.51 11 500
3 0. 47 32 000
2.2 Flow over half cylinder
Now, consider a subsonic flow at Mach num-
ber Ma=0. 3 through a half cylinder with non-di-
mensional radius ?r=0.5. Two singular points
will cause unsteady vortex shedding. We use the
test case to verify the capability of the dynamic a-
daptive hybrid Cartesian grid mesh to capture and
track the unsteady vortex shedding. The initial
mesh contains 18 149 cells, and three levels of
mesh refinement are conducted based on the ini-
tial mesh. Fig. 5 (a) shows the instantaneous a
daptive computational mesh, which contains a-
sponding vorticity distribution( Vor). Comparison
of the variation of drag coefficients CD in non-di-
mensional time T between adaptive mesh refine-
ment ( AMR) and regular mesh are shown in
Fig. 5(c). The results show that if we use the
mesh refinement, the drag coefficient is smaller
than that without it.
2.3 Shock vortex interaction Ie
Finally, a shock and vortex interaction prob-
lem is considered, which is adapted from
Ret. [1]. It contains an interaction between a
moving isentropic vortex and a stationary Mach
1.1 shock, which positioned at Z 一 0. 5 and nor-
mal to the z-axis. The initial condition is set fol-
lowing the exact Rankine-Hugoniot condition and
a vortex is superposed to the main flow with its
x ?)
Fig. 6 Local views of pressure contours and adaptive
center at (0. 25,0. 5). The left state of the shock
is specified as Cp,x,0,) 一 (1,y7,0,1). The vot-
tex and computational domain are described as
that in section 2. 1. During the vortex convection,
two levels of mesh refinement are carried out
based on a uniform grid of 100 X 50, The reflective
boundary conditions are used at the top and the
bottom boundaries. For this special case, the di-
vergence and the curl of velocity are taken as the
solution adaptive sensors. Local views
《 [0.0y,1.0] X [0. 0,1. 0] of adaptive Cartesian
grids and pressure contours at time f 一 0. 05 , =
0.20 and ￠t = 0. 35 are shown in Fig. 6. From
Fig. 6Cb) ,when the vortex is moving through the
shock wave; even though its core is contaminated
by the shock, the curved shock is still clear, and
t=0.05 x
1 一 0.35 x
Cartesian grids at time f 一 0. 05, f 一 0. 20 and t 一 0. 35
the restoration of the vortex is perfect. Fig. 7
shows the comparison between the results ob-
tained by the present method and the WENO-LF-5
finite difference method), This figure reveals the
Fig. 7 Ninety pressure contour levels from 1.19 to 1. 37
3 CONCLUSION
An efficient cell-centered finite volume solver
with dynamic adaptive hybrid Cartesian grid
method is implemented and demonstrated for so-
lutions of Euler equations for 2-D vortex-domina-
ted flow problems. A study of vortex propaga-
tion problem is carried out and the results suc-
cessfully show the capability of the present meth-
od in vortex preserving and tracking. The shock
vortex interaction problem reveals the method can
deal with complicated flow problems. In addi-
tion,the simulation of flow over a half cylinder is
carried out and results are presented to show the
capability and efficiency of the dynamic adaptive
hybrid Cartesian grid method in vortex-dominated
flow problems.
