基于交互仿真技术的民用飞机舒适性研究
提高民机舒适性需要各个系统的综合设计,但飞机制造成功后如果舒适性不满足要求再考虑改进舒适性,工作进行难度比较大,且未必能取得理想的效果,因此设计之初就要考虑民机客舱的舒适性。为解决此问题,设计之中选择特定的仿真软件对客舱的舒适性进行设计、评估及优化,这样舒适性设计可取得良好的设计方案,并可节约项目成本。基于此研究思路,介绍了利用VIRTOOLS软件对舱内舒适性进行设计研究的方法和思路。

客舱舒适性 飞机设计 交互仿真系统  

visualize the positive influence of the amplitude
modulation and the phase shift of the synthetic jet on
the flow field behind the hump. The cells of the
synthetic jet generator work on their own resonant
frequency (the Helmholtz (cavity) frequency) and
create vortexes in the flow field which have impact on
the size and character of the wake after the hump [1, 2].
Application of synthetic jet with amplitude modulation
to the flow reduces pressure and velocity losses―size
of wake behind hump [3]. The amplitude and the phase
shift of the actuation of neighbouring synthetic jets
generators are adjusted to discover the strongest
positive effect on the wake size. This effect needs to be
analysed. Pressure and velocity measurement
techniques were used to verify the influence of the
synthetic jet on the flow field behind the hump.
Thermal images of the surface of the hump with hot
foil were acquired by thermo camera to visualise size
of wake. The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 is
methods and experiment description; Section 3 is
226 The Influence of Modulated Slotted Synthetic Jet on the Bypass of Hump
verification of the existence of synthetic jet; Section 4
presents results of the experiment; Section 5 is
discussion; Section 6 gives conclusions.
2. Methods and Experiment Description
50 mm (length x width x height) was used (Fig. 1). The
model was placed into a channel in an open-circuit
wind tunnel with a closed test section (Fig. 2), the
dimension ofthe cross section area: 300 mm x 200 mm
(length x width). The velocity of the free stream in the
inlet of the test section area was 8.5 m/s, intensity of
turbulence Tu = 1.1 %.
Model dimensions are 300 x 400 x 50. Output slots
of SJ (synthetic jet) generator is placed in the location
of maximum thickness of the model. Each cell of SJ
generator consists of two electrodynamics
actuators-loudspeakers, mounted in one cavity [4]. The
cells are connected in two electric branches,which
make it possible to use the phase shift of the actuation
of the neighbouring cell’s. This phase shift positively
influence the flow around the hump in such a way that
it will support the generation of the longitudinal vortex
structures similar to those being generated by vortex
generators [5]. The generator is actuated by a carrier
frequency that is identical to the resonance frequency
of cavity (the Helmholtz frequency) and the
modulation frequency corresponds to the
nondimensional frequency F+ [6], maximum of free
stream energetic spectrum, to reach a maximum
efficiency of the flow control with minimal input
electric power (Table 1). Two methods were used to
measure the flow field: the total pressure (measured
towards atmospheric pressure) measured by the Kiel
probe (traversing plane in distance of 530 mm from the
leading edge of the model) and the velocity profile
measured by the CTA probe (traversing plane in
distance of 455 mm from the leading edge of the
model) (Figs. 1 and 3). Size of traversing plane in both
cases is smaller due to the fixing systems of probes
(Fig. 1). Starting point (zero point) of traversing plane
is situated 7 mm from side and bottom wall of wind
tunnel (Fig. 4). Fig. 4 shows a geometric section by
measurement plane; the dots represent the design
points of the grid,the squares with dots are the
measurement points used for measurements by the
CTA probe. For measurements by the Kiel probe,a row
ofdots above the grid for the CTA probe was added to
the grid. Fig. 4 also shows the shift of the traversing
area against the geometric shape ofthe test section. The
origin of coordinate system of the traversing area is
situated on lover left square. Influence of the wall on
the measurement was small; influence of the boundary
layer was more sensitive than influence of near wall
thus wall correction was not applied. Thermal images
using hot foil placed on the surface of hump were
captured by thermo camera to visualise the influence of
the synthetic jet.
2D traversing system controlled by a measuring
programme was used. This programme communicates
with the stepper motors through an NI PCI-7344 card
for stepper drive control and uses an NI PCI-6251 data
acquisition card to collect data. For CTA probe
measurements, DANTEC miniCTA system with 55P11
probe was used. Traversing by the Kiel and CTA probes
section), assumed from Ref. [1].
test section: l―air intake; 2―dust filter; 3―settling
chamber; 4―contraction cone; 5―test section; 6―model;
7―probe holder; 8―traversing unit; 9―diffuser; 10―drive
section,
The Influence of Modulated Slotted Synthetic Jet on the Bypass of Hump 227
Table 1 List of measured setups at wind tannel speed 8.5 m/s.
Kiel CTA probe velocity Hotfoil
Hig. 3 Coordinate system of model and measurement planes in wind tunnel.
was done on a defined traversing grid, respecting the ~~ probe and dots correspond to measurement with the
boundary layer (Fig. 4). The area marked in the picture ~~ Kiel probe. The smallest distance between two
by squares was used for measurement with the CTA neighbouring measurement points was about 1.7 mm
228 The Influence of Modulated Slotted Synthetic Jet on the Bypass of Hump
for the x-axis and 1.4 mm for the y-axis; the greatest
distance was 13.1 mm for the x-axis and 14.3 mm for
the y-axis.
3. Verification of the Existence of Synthetic Jet
Synthetic jet generator was designed with respect to
the criteria of existence of the synthetic jet [6, 7] and
character of the flow field [6]. Characteristics of the
synthetic jet generator were measured, i.e., the output
velocity depending on the input frequencies (carrier
and modulation frequency) and the output velocity
depending on the input electric current. Subsequently,
the working region of the synthetic jet used in that
work was verified. The working region is mentioned in
Fig. 5. ReH is Reynolds number and SH is Stokes
number, both derived by Ref. [7]. The working region
of the designed synthetic jet generator when operating
at the carrier frequency of 370 Hz is in a sufficient
distance from the border of limit of existence of the
阮技技招租技吴吴租吴沥吴罚伟吴吴吴吴吴河
| Working range of the synthetic jet on the hump
技00
妻玟相
i 01 1 10
derived by Ref. [7].
synthetic jet. Fig. 5 shows the working point for above
specified flow velocity in the wind tunnel (8.5 m/s) and
the frequency of 370 Hz.
To determine the modulation frequency two
processes were used. Estimation of modulation was
calculated using nondimensional frequency 厂 ,
Data from measured by the CTA probe were used for
verification of value of nondimensional frequency.
The sampling frequency was 30 kHz,the signal
acquisition time was 2 s, and the measurement was
carried out in the whole traversing plane defined in
Section 4. From the acquired data the power spectrum
was calculate (Fig. 6). The power spectrum, presented
in this figure, shows the optimal modulation
frequency value by which it is appropriate to
influence the flow field [6]. This optimal frequency is
carrying biggest part of energy.
100 1.000
is Reynolds number derived by and SH is Stokes number, both
The Influence of Modulated Slotted Synthetic Jet on the Bypass of Hump 229
Power spectrum of
技 tt ee st A Sr A y yy
synthetic jet; and U is the free stream velocity.
4. Results of the Experiment
Three basic experimental conditions were selected in
this paper to show the positive influence of phase shift
of neighbouring synthetic jets on the flow field. The
synthetic jet generator was actuated by carrying
frequency f, = 370 Hz and modulation frequency f, =
60 Hz. In the one case, there was no phase shift. In the
other, the phase shift of amplitude modulation was set
in the opposite phase, by 180°. Dimensions of the area
measured by the Kiel probe were 260.5 mm x 191.7
mm. Dimensions measured by the CTA probe were
251 mm x 140.4 mm. The starting points of traversing
grid for these measurements were situated near the left
bottom corner of the wind tunnel test section (7 mm
from side and bottom wall of wind tunnel). Therefore,
the wall effect of the synthetic jet is not visible on the
right side of the wind tunnel. Loss coefficient was
defined as follows:
flow around the hump
F+
Pres is the reference total pressure in the wind
tunnel before the hump,
p.(Kiel) is the total pressure measured by the Kiel
probe,
Pures is the reference dynamic pressure before the
hump.
For measuring by the CTA probe―mean velocity
calculated from measured speed in traversing area is
calculate and same for turbulence intensity.
L is turbulence intensity;
u is mean velocity of flow;
X「is fluctuation component of velocity.
4.1 The Kiel Probe Results
In Fig. 7, we can see the total pressure fields in the
position of 530 mm from the leading edge. The
230 The Influence of Modulated Slotted Synthetic Jet on the Bypass of Hump
from reference barometric pressure.
greyscale represents total pressure measured from
reference barometric pressure. In Fig. 8, the
comparison of the total pressure distribution is shown,
sections A being 0 mm, B―62.5 mm and C―125 mm
from the traversing grid origin. A positive influence of
the synthetic jet on the wake size is visible sections B
and C, with the phase shift (in section C) in particular.
The output slot of generator of the synthetic jet starts at
about 6 mm from the side of the wall, so the effect of
the synthetic jet to the flow field close to side wall
cannot be visible. In Fig. 9, we can see the value of the
loss coefficient calculated from the total pressure
values. Fig. 9a represents the case with no actuation
and Fig. 9b with an actuation but no phase shift. Fig. 9c
represents the case with an active actuation and a phase
shift.
4.2 The CTA Probe Results
The velocity field measured by the CTA probe is
showed in Fig. 10 (position of 440 mm from the
leading edge). Fig. 11 shows the comparison of the
velocity distribution in sections D, E, F. In Fig. 12, we
can see the turbulence intensity distribution calculated
from the values measured by the CTA probe. Results
are comparable to the total pressure measurements.
4.3 The Thermal Images
The visualisation ofthe flow field with the influence
of the synthetic jet is showed in Fig. 13 [8, 9]. The
visualisation uses a film heated by a constant heating
(b) (c)
input and applied to the surface of the hump. In the case
of no actuation, it can be seen in the picture that the
high temperature area affects almost the whole first
third of the monitored area. This indicates a very early
separation of the flow from the model, probably right at
its top, where the synthetic jets are located. The heated
air stays there for a longer period of time, decreasing
the efficiency of the cooling. In cases where the
synthetic jet was activated (without any phase shift and
with a phase shift of amplitude modulation), the flow
stays on the surface of the model, cooling the film more
effectively. The reduction of the high temperature area
is smaller close to the wall, because of the effect of side
wall of the wind tunnel. It can therefore be concluded
that the actuation also had a positive effect on the
visualisation of the thermal field. The smaller size of
the dark (hot) area indicates a positive effect of the
synthetic jet. The smaller dark area corresponds to the
smaller size of the recirculation area.
5S. Discussion .
All methods clearly show a positive influence of the
synthetic jet on the flow field around the model.
Positive effect of the synthetic jet to the reduction of
the wake size is shown in Figs. 7 and 10. At the bottom
of these figures, the boundary of the wake is corrugated.
This is caused by the influence of the synthetic jet and
bv the wall effect on the left side of the wall of the wind
tunnel. The minimal wake for excitation with phase
shift was discovered. In section A, X = 0, corner wall
The Influence of Modulated Slotted Synthetic Jet on the Bypass of Hump 231
(c) section C, X= 125 mm.
synthetic jet; (c) phase shift of amplitude modulation of the synthetic jet.
￥ posiion e
(a)
Fig. 11 Comparison of the velocity distributions in sections D, E, F.
?) ?
(b) ?
232 The Influence of Modulated Slotted Synthetic Jet on the Bypass of Hump
phase shift of amplitude modulation of the synthetic jet [8, 9].
Table 2 Comparison of the loss coefficient in measurement plane calculated from Kiel probe and CTA probe velocity and
turbulence intensity.
Reference case―no actuation 2.1466 + 0.0002 6.43 + 0.03 27.07 +￡0.01
Actuation without phase shift 2.1263 + 0.0002 6.54 ￡0.03 25.38 +￡0.01
Actuation with phase shift 2.1236 + 0.0002 6.63 ￡0.03 24.52 ￡0.01
effect is considerable and the influence of the synthetic
jet is suppressed. For the synthetic jet influence without
any phase shift in section A, better resuits were
obtained as far as the corner wall effect is concerned.
This is due to the different wake size compared to the
effect of the synthetic jet with phase shift, The mean
total pressure in the plane position of 530 mm (no
actuation, no phase shift, phase shift) was pci =-7.22 +
0.05 Pa, py = -6.45 土 0.05 Pa, ps = -6.50 + 0.05 Pa
(lower value means higher loses). The mean velocity in
plane position (no actuation, no phase shift, phase) was
(b) (?)
Tn = 27.07 %, Top=< 25.38 %, T5= 24.52 %.
In graphs of the loss coefficient an enlargement of
the area with a lower loss coefficient is clearly visible.
The calculated values are presented in Table 2.
All these values clearly show positive contribution
of the opposite phase shift to the decrease of the wake
size. The visualization by the thermal camera shows
the advantage of the synthetic jet. The thermogram
clearly shows positive effect of the synthetic jet.
6. Conclusions
The synthetic jet generator placed on the top of the
model of hump definitely has a positive effect to the
wake size. This influence was verified by three
The Influence of Modulated Slotted Synthetic Jet on the Bypass of Hump 233
different measurement techniques. The opposite phase
shift of the neighbouring synthetic jet cells in synthetic
jet generator has a positive effect on reducing of the
wake behind the model.
Acknowledgments
The work has been supported by the Czech Science
Foundation under Grants No. GA 101/08/1112.
