基于控制变量参数化的主动反拦截突防最优控制计算方法
针对由于敌防空系统防御能力不断提高所带来的进攻导弹突防难题,提出主动反拦截突防（IAIP）的概念,以弥补传统机动突防仅考虑进攻导弹的逃逸而忽略其攻击任务的缺陷。根据IAIP制导的内涵,在综合考虑目标的机动性能、拦截导弹末段的拦截特性及进攻导弹的控制系统性能的基础上,建立进攻导弹-目标-拦截导弹的三体运动模型。将突防制导指令的设计等效为最优控制的求解,其中突防指令为实现燃料最省目标的最优解,进攻导弹的过载、拦截导弹的脱靶量、进攻导弹的攻击角、打击精度和突防后的视线角,分别为控制约束、路径约束和末端约束。借鉴控制变量参数化（CVP）方法将最优控制问题转化为非线性数学规划问题,并将路径约束离散化后采用序列二次规划（SQP）算法得到突防时机给定条件下制导指令的数值解。提出基于CVP的混合遗传算法（CVP-GA）,用于求解最优突防时机及制导指令。仿真结果显示,采用IAIP最优控制算法的进攻导弹在成功突防后的打击精度仍可满足任务要求,且其燃料消耗相对于传统串联式突防方法降低了23.7%,验证了该方法的有效性及优越性。

主动反拦截突防 最优控制 控制变量参数化 路径约束离散化 遗传算法  

Article ID: 1671-9433(2013)03-0298-17
1 Introduction
Liquid sloshing is one of the most severe problems in
transportation. Sloshing has been defined as the free surface
oscillations of liquid in a partially filled container. When a
partially filled liquid container gets accelerated in one or
more directions due to external forces, waves will occur on
the liquid free surface. This type of sloshing is called
externally induced sloshing. Sometimes, self induced
sloshing also arises while transferring the liquid from one
container to another. Most of the researchers have
concentrated their efforts on externally induced sloshing
because of its practical significance. The knowledge of
liquid free surface natural frequencies is important in the
design of liquid containers subjected to different types of
Received date: 2012-10-14,
Accepted date: 2012-11-02.
*Corresponding author Email: saha@iitg.ac.in
? Harbin Engineering University and Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2013
(1951), and Graham and Rodriguez (1952) performed some
basic studies relevant to this topic. Housner (1957, 1963)
developed an analytical method for the determination of
hydrodynamic wall pressures under the assumption that the
container is a rigid structure fixed at the base. Faltinsen
(1974), Faltinsen and Timokha (2002), and Frandsen and
Borthwick (2003) presented approximate theoretical forms
for inviscid sloshing motion in fixed and moving containers.
Extensive numerical analyses of liquid slosh dynamics have
been undertaken by using numerical methods such as the
finite difference method, boundary element method, finite
volume method, etc. Techniques, such as marker and cell
(MAC), volume of fluid (VOF) are available to handle the
free surface of the moving fluid (Popov er al., 1993;
Akyildiz and Unal, 2006; Cho ez al., 2005; Arafa, 2007; Hirt
and Nichols, 1981; Eswaran et al., 2009). Since these
methods require complex computer programming to treat
the time varying free surface boundary and computational
mesh needs to be updated at every time step, use of
o-transformation for treating the liquid free surface has
gained widespread popularity in recent years. The
o-transformation technique is simple, easy to implement and
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 298-314
eliminates the need for remeshing of the computational
Turnbull et al. (2003), Chen and Nokes (2005), Dai and Xu
(2006), Eswaran and Saha (2009a, 2009b, 2010). Originally,
o - transformation was proposed for meteorological weather
forecasting by Phillips (1957), however, later, Blumberg and
Mellor (1980) and Mellor and Blumberg (1985) applied it in
the context of oceanic and coastal flows. Recently, Frandsen
(2004) investigated numerically steep free surface sloshing
in 2D fixed and base-excited rectangular containers, with a
focus on moving liquid free surface using o-transformation
and compared the results with third-order single modal
solutions and theoretical results (multidimensional modal
analysis) of Faltinsen et al. (2000). Thus, it was revealed
that all the investigations as reported above have used sigma
transformation technique for 2D containers only. Studies
addressing 3D containers have not been reported so far in
literature reviews. In view of this, the current investigation,
modifications have also been performed in the existing
o-transformation technique.
The main objective of this paper was to develop a new
computational algorithm for capturing the liquid free surface
“ for idealized 2D and 3D sloshing waves of inviscid fluid in a
rectangular liquid container. In order to accomplish this, a
modified o-transformation technique was used to map the
asymmetric physical domain onto a square computational
domain, such that the moving free surface in the physical
plane becomes a fixed plane surface in the computational
domain. The finite difference scheme was used to solve the
discretized governing equations in the transformed
computational domain to obtain the free surface elevation
elevations are captured in the regularly and randomly
excited container in vertical direction at different locations
of the 2D and 3D domains while varying the modes of
oscillation (#=1, 2 and 3). Two initial wave profiles for the
sinusoidal wave profiles) are used for the 3D fluid domain
to observe the variation in the free surface elevation time
histories at different locations of the container. Section 2 is
focused on the mathematical formulation of the present
work. Section 3 presents the mapping procedure which maps
domain and 3D domain. In section 4, the finite difference
discretizations of the governing equation and boundary
conditions in the computational domain have been given.
The free surface elevation of liquid, phase plane diagram,
spectrum analysis and free surface profiles are discussed for
vertically excited container in section 5.
299
2 Mathematical formulation
A rectangular Cartesian coordinate system was initially
employed with origin on the mean free-surface at the left
wall of the container. Primarily, a 2D nonlinear wave
problem was considered, as depicted in Fig. 1, where is
the free-surface elevation above still water level, b is the
length of the container, and 4; is the still water depth. The
fluid in the container was assumed to be inviscid and
irrotational Taking the assumption that the fluid was
governed by potential flow theory, the velocity potential ￠
left, right and bottom boundaries were indicated by L, R,
and B, respectively (Fig. 1). The free surface occurs at the
interface between two fluids. Such an interface requires two
boundary conditions to be applied, viz., (i) a kinematic
condition that relates the motion of the free interface to the
fluid velocities at the free surface (i.e., T,) and (ii) a
components normal to the walls and bottom of the container
were zero, Zero pressure at the free surface of the fluid was
also assumed for the analysis. In view of the fact mentioned
above, kinematic and dynamic conditions must be satisfied
on the free surface. Therefore, the governing equations in
the physical domain were presented as,
Fig. 1 Sketch of a standing wave in 2D container
Here, 卫 is the acceleration of the container in the
vertical direction which can be neglected from the free
surface dynamic boundary condition for fixed container
where g is the acceleration due to gravity, 4 the wave
amplitude, ￥, the acceleration of the container and # the
time. Here X , 卫 , 习 , 芸 , t and 办 represent the
as following,
terms or products of unknown parameters.
3 Mapping procedure
in the horizontal direction which stretches between the left
3.1 Transformation of 2D container ,
Initially, formulations were developed for the fixed
container condition, so the horizontal and vertical excitation
terms were neglected from the Eq. (4) in the following
formulation part.
domain (Fig. 3). The mapping function C(x,) was defined
as
〈)-=一乏'普'一叠(12)
where
Fig. 3 The 2D intermediate domain after first transformation
to 1. The value of C at the bottom of the container is 0,
while at the free surface is 1. The first-order derivatives of
o can be calculated as follows:
The potential function @(x,y,t) in the physical domain
was transformed to the potential function 8(X,,7) in
the o -transformed domain.
xX, X=2x-1
teoT. T=t
Using the chain rule, the first set of derivatives of ￠
with respect to x, y and f gets transformed as
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 298-314
The second set of derivatives of ￠ with respect to x and
y gets transformed as,
Hence, by using the C -transformation, we can derive the
new governing equation and boundary conditions specified
on the rectangular o& -transformed domain. The governing
equation after the first coordinate transformation was
provided as:
where
Boundary conditions after the first coordinate
transformation are given as:
301
Fig. 4 The 2D computational domain after second
transformation
Step 2: Second coordinate transformation
After the first coordinate transformation, the liquid
domain becomes a rectangle defined by -1<X<+1,
―-1<Y<+1. The time-varying curved free surface was,
hence, replaced by the fixed straight line. Any numerical
method can be employed to solve the governing equations in
the computational domain. Now the second transformation
free surface. The second coordinate transformation was
applied by the following equations
Xoét=X
transformation produces clustering of the grids near the free
surface depending on the value of 广 selected. The clustering
of grids near the free surface improved accuracy and eased
convergence of the computational algorithm. As 厂
the free surface of the liquid. Another parameter in the
transformation X adjusts the position of the bottom in the
transformed coordinates. Here the value of Q has been taken
as ―1 so that the computational domain after the second
transformation is a rectangle defined by 1 卢 <1 and
-1<17 <1 with grid stretching near free surface as shown
in Fig. 4. The mapping was performed from the
o -transformed @(X,Y,T) domain to the computational
domain p(6,7,7}) . AR(X,7) the height of the liquid
surface was transformed to A (&,7), the height of the
liquid surface in the transformed computational domain.
h,; was the difference between the nodal indices along 工
axis of the grid after the first coordinate transformation.
The derivatives of the function @(X,Y,T) with respect
to 龙 工 and T were transformed into derivatives of
o(&,n,7) with respect to &, 〗 and 7. The first set of
derivatives of @(X,Y,T) gets transformed as:
302 Eswaran M, et al. Numerical Simulation of 2D and 3D Sloshing Waves in a Regularly and Randomly Excited Container
where
The second set of derivatives gets transformed as follows:
After the second coordinate transformation the governing
equation (Eq. 12) becomes,
where
given as:
where
The governing equation and the boundary conditions in
the computational domain were provided by Eqs. (33)―~(40)
and any numerical method can be used to solve them. One
more feature of this C-transformation technique was that it
could easily be extended to 3D coordinates in a similar way.
3.2 Extension to 3D rectangular container
The 3D rectangular domain was bounded by 5 regular
surfaces and 1 free surface. The velocity components normal
to the fixed surfaces were zero. The left, right, front and
back and the bottom boundary conditions were indicated by
LB, RB, FB, BB and BMB, respectively in Eqs. (42]-(44).
As usual, the top surface had two boundary conditions, viz.
the kinematic condition (TB,) and dynamic condition (TB,).
When the container was subjected to vertical acceleration,
the non-dimensional governing equations based on the
potential flow theory are as follows:
where w is width of the rectangular container. The derivation
of the governing equations can be performed in the same
way as the two-dimensional case by the following two
transformations. The first transformation was performed for
conversion from physical domains (Figs. 5 and 6) to
o -transformed domain (Fig. 7) and the second
transformation was for o￠ -transformed domain to
computational domain (Fig. 8).
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 298-314
Fig. 5 The 3D physical domain with initial wave profile 1
Fig. 6 The 3D physical domain with initial wave profile 1
and 2
The mapping relations for first transformation were
provided as,
Hence the transformed governing equation becomes:
where
The boundary conditions are given as:
Fig. 7 The 3D intermediate domain after first transformation
Fig. 8 The 3D intermediate domain after second
transformation
On the free surface.
帕H雾=隐雾一岘噩噩_锄噩噩onI=+1(53)
where
The mapping relations for second transformation were
given as,
艺 43 吊 , 占 二 友 ; Zox,k=Z; Tor, t=T;
The mapping was performed from the C -transformed
304 Eswaran M, et al. Numerical Simulation of 2D and 3D Sloshing Waves in a Regularly and Randomly Excited Container
&(X,Y,Z,T) domain to the computational
domainp(6,7,k,7) . The height of the liquid, A(X,Z,T)
surface was transformed to the height of the liquid in the
transformed computational domain, 瓜 (6kK,7) The hy,
is the difference between the nodal indices along I axis of
the grid after the first coordinate transformation. The
derivatives of the function &(X,Y,Z,T) with respect to 必
Y Z and T are transformed into derivatives
of ￠(&,n,x,7) with respect to &,m,x and 7. After the
Boundary conditions after the second transformation are
given as:
On the free surface,
where
Since sloshing is a highly nonlinear phenomenon,the
amplitude of excitation, frequency of excitation and
container dimensions play a vital role in determining the
shape of the nonlinear free surface. An
amplitude―frequency relationship for the fluid response in
system exactly matches the time-dependent free-surface
wave profile due to the o -transformation. Here, we
should note that the mean water level in the container
remains constant, so that the sum of the wave height along
the x direction is kept at zero to maintain the volume
conservation.
4 Finite difference discretization in the
computational domain
In the current study, a finite difference scheme is used for
the numerical study of the liquid sloshing. The
computational domain is rectangular in shape for 2D
numerical simulations and cuboidal for 3D numerical
simulations. The governing equation and boundary
conditions in the computational domain (Egs. (33) to (40))
are discretized using finite difference method.
Adams-Bashforth scheme is utilized for the computation of
nonlinear solutions. As Adams-Bashforth scheme requires
results from previous time steps to calculate the current time
step result, hence the semi-implicit scheme is used to
generate results for the initial time steps.
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 298-314
of the computational domain. As discussed, the top
boundary consists of two conditions, viz. kinematic
condition and dynamic condition. In computational domain,
the kinematic condition (Eq. (38)) was discretized by a
forward scheme at 7 =1 as follows
where
At o=1, the dynamic condition (Eq. (39)) was
discretized as:
where
The value of ￠"*' was computed using Eq. (66) and
was substituted in Eq. (67). Then, the new ￠"*' was found
equations were discretized by means of second order central
the boundaries.
4.2 Adams-Bashforth scheme
future time steps. Here, three Point Adams-Bashforth
schemes as mentioned in Eqs. (69) and (70) have been used.
The governing equation (Eq. (33)) was discretized by the
standard fourth order central difference approximation and
is given by
305
are the first and second order central difference operators
along 不 and 1 directions respectively, and 656 is the
mixed second order central difference operator.
4.3 Convergence criteria used for the iterative solver
solving a linear equation 44b = in the fluid domain at
available, but the iterative methods have been chosen for
this work to find the solution to the velocity potential ￠ at
every time step since these are known to have the
advantages of lesser discretization error and better speed of
Successive over relaxation method has been chosen fo solve
the iteration error has decreased by an acceptable amount.
Iteration errors (Ferziger and Peric, 2002) can be calculated
as,
6“ =￠? ―￠" = (4 - D(A) aw, (73)
where 6“ is the difference between solutions at iterations
n+l and n, and 办 is the spectral radius or the largest
eigenvalue of the iteration matrix. It can be estimated from
Eq. (74).
square) of a. After obtaining an estimate of the largest
eigenvalue ( 力 ),the iteration error can be approximated
from Eq. (75).
Hence a good estimate of iteration error is available. The
volume errors for all the cases studied were found to be
within the range of [―107°,10~ ] as shown in Fig. 9. This
when the difference between two successive iterations falls
below a predefined tolerance limit) since the difference
between two successive iterations falling below a particular
limit does not ensure that the iteration error has also fallen
The residual and iteration error are related as,
306 Eswaran M, et al. Numerical Simulation of 2D and 3D Sloshing Waves in a Regularly and Randomly Excited Container
As, =p, (76)
where 4 represents the iteration matrix, ￠, the iteration
error norm and p, the residual norm at any particular
residual norm below the tolerance limit does not ensure that
the error norm has also fallen below the same tolerance limit.
Hence, it is essential for the iteration to have proper
evaluation of error to ensure the accuracy of solutions. In the
case of two dimensional vertical regular excitations in a
rectangular container, a comparison was done for the various
iterative solver stopping criteria as shown in Fig. 10. For
iterations at the first time step, the variation of norm of the
exact iteration error, estimated iteration error with the above
0.2x{07, hence this stopping criterion is not suited for the
as the exact iteration error in this case (except for the initial
iterations where it shows slight oscillations). Using residual
K,=0.015) versus non-dimensional time (fx)
In the present study, the initial value of velocity potential
2D liquid domain and the initial value of free surface
domain, initial value of free surface elevation ( {) is
considered in two cases say, initial profile 1
are the respective amplitudes of the initial wave profiles on
the liquid free surface along the X and Z axes (Fig. 6), 又 ,
(=nm/b), K, (= nm/w) are the respective wave numbers of
container. The initial wave steepness defined for fixed
container studies is as given below:
where 4 is the amplitude of the initial wave profile on the
liquid free surface, ?, the natural sloshing frequency of
considered as 1 : 2. The linear natural sloshing frequencies
in the two dimensional rectangular container is expressed as:
Now the term 卫 in the dynamic boundary condition (Eq.
(4)) was switched off for fixed container condition. Two
was determined from the wave steepness using Eq. (77).
Here, numerical simulations are conducted for case A, case B
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 298-314
case C, and case D. Case A represents 2D numerical
simulation of regularly excited liquid container in vertical
direction and case B represents 3D numerical simulation of
regularly excited liquid container in vertical direction with
initial profile 1 for liquid free surface. Case C represents 3D
numerical simulation of regularly excited liquid container in
vertical direction with initial profile 1 and 2 for fluid free
surface and Case D represents the 3D numerical simulation
of the randomly excited liquid container in vertical direction.
5.1 Grid independence and validation test
The wave characteristics include a crest at the top and a
trough at the bottom. The difference in elevation between the
crests and trough is the wave height. The distance between
the adjacent crests or troughs of wave is termed as the
wavelength. The ratio of wave height to wavelength is the
wave's steepness. While increasing the wave steepness the
nonlinearity of the wave increases. Before proceeding with
the solution of the governing equations on the computational
domain, grid independence study to choose a suitably refined
grid for the solution is very important. Grid was successively
refined along the three dimensional axes and the free surface
plots along the container length for all the grids at time 7.5
seconds and Z=0 were compared. As shown in Fig. 11,
initially the grid was refined in the horizontal and axial
directions of container. Since the container was bounded by
fixed vertical walls in the horizontal and axial directions, free
surface plots do not seem to be affected by refining along
these directions. But attention is required in the vertical
direction, because of the moving free surface on the top. The
grid points along the vertical direction were increased from
21 to 41 and then to 61 mesh points and we found that the
free surface plot for the 41 x 61 x 41 grid nearly overlaps with
the free surface plot for the 41 x 41 x 41 grid. Hence
41x61x 41 grid is a suitable grid for the current study.
Faltinsen er al. (2000) did comprehensive analysis of
sloshing through theoretical and experimental techniques to
provide results considered as benchmark results for the
sloshing problems. Fig. 12 shows the comparison of present
numerical work with theoretical result of Faltinsen et al.
(2000) for the test case: v = 1.283; 4, = 0.029 m and Kj, =
0.069. The wave peaks and troughs match well with present
work. Therefore, the numerical solution was in reasonable
agreement with the work of Faltinsen et al. (2000) for this
particular test case. The specific test case was previously
solved by Hill (2003) and Frandsen (2004) and similar
results were obtained. Frandsen (2004) has compared his
results with Faltinsen et al. (2000).
5.2 Vertically excited container: regular motion
The initial condition of the liquid free surface used to
simulate sloshing in a vertically excited container is the
same as for the sloshing motion simulation in a fixed
container. It is difficult to simulate sloshing with a vertical
excitation only. In order to have an initial perturbation in the
free surface inside the container, horizontal motions need to
be excited before the vertical excitation. To avoid this
307
situation, the initial standing wave profile was assumed for
this work. Initial wave impulse at the fluid free surface was
required for vertically excited condition and it is considered
in two ways, initial profile 1 and initial profile 1 and 2 (as
discussed in section 5). The vertical acceleration of the
container is given by 卫 = (-@,4d,cos(@) ,where 4, is
the vertical forcing amplitude,f is the time, w, is the
angular frequency of forced vertical motion. The initial
velocity potential in the fluid domain is considered as
P(E). =0.
5.3 Effect of mode number on regular waves oscillation
The waves generated by the vertical excitation are called
Faraday waves as explored by Faraday (1831) through his
the excitation frequency is twice the natural frequency for
some initial perturbation in the container. This resonance
condition is called parametric resonance.
four different grids (21 x 21 x 21, 41 x 21 x 41,
41x41x 41 and 41x61 x 41) for K,=0.033 at time
7.5 s and Z=0
work showing the free-surface elevation at the left
wall in horizontally excited container; w,=1.283,
Ap, = 6.029 m and y = 0.069
08 Eswaran M, et al. Numerical Simulation of 2D and 3D Sloshing Waves in a Regularly and Randomly Excited Container
atr=3s
=0.4, E, = 0.003 3 and = 0.015
fK:-0.4, E, = 0.002 4 and K, =0.015
=0.4, E, =0.001 6 and K, =0.015
Q,=w,/w, and K, and discussed results from stability
K=04).
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 298-314
locations (left wall (L), center (C) and right wall
and .=0.015
1 at different locations (left front (LF), center front
(CF), right front (RF), left back (LB), center back
(CB) and right back (RB) for n=l,
Figs. 13 and 14 show liquid free surface elevation along
seconds, respectively. The mode number defines the shape
of the free surface during the numerical simulations. The
first few mode natural frequencies of system are dangerous
for the structural integrity of the container during violent
motions.
Figs. 15 through 17 show the free surface elevations of
E;=0.003 3 and K,=0.4. The case A and case B show almost
similar elevation histories. But, case C shows large wave
oscillations.
Fig. 20 Free surface elevation for case C at different
locations (left front (LF), center front (CF), right
' front (RF), left back (LB), center back (CB) and
-1.0 -0.5 0 0.5 1.0
{A
-15 -1.0 05 0 0.5 1.0 1.5
{iA
(b) Case C
Fig. 21 Vertically excited container phase-plane diagram at
and K, =0.015
310 Eswaran M, et al. Numerical Simulation of 2D and 3D Sloshing Waves in a Regularly and Randomly Excited Container
5.4 Free surface elevation on different locations
Due to the wall effect, one can find the maximum wave
amplitude near the wall, while the wave amplitude reduces
as we move towards the centre. Here, three points were
considered for case A (L,p, Cop and Rop), and six points
were considered for the case B and case C (LFsp,CFaD,
RF;p, LBsD, CBsp and RB;p). These points were shown in
Figs. 5 and 6. Fig. 18 shows free surface wave elevation
time history in the vertically excited 2D container for case A
at three different locations. The free surface wave elevation
time history for case B and case C were shown in Figs. 19
and 20. In all cases, one can observe that the free surface
elevation time histories of case A and case B are similar.
Since the assumed initial profiles are the same in both cases
initial profile 1 and 2) shows dissimilar behavior and the
difference between the crests and troughs also drastically
varies from case B due to high nonlinearity. Fig. 21 (a) and
(b) show the phase plane diagram at LTapfor (2 = 1.253, E,
= 0.0033 and X, = 0.4. In Fig. 21 (a), the phase plane
diagram shows the uniform repeating pattern, but Fig. 21(b)
shows the non-uniform repeating pattern behavior.
5.5 Vertically exeitedcontainer: random motion
In most practical situations, the excitation or the time
variation of the system parameters were random in nature
(Ibrahim, 2005). The behavior of such systems under
deterministic or regular wave parametric excitation was an
idealization and an oversimplification of the real behavior
The random excitation originates from many natural and
artificial sources. Recently, the 2D sloshing waves generated
by the random excitations were studied by Wang and Khoo
(2005), and Sriram ef al. (2006). The random vertical
oscillation of the container was considered in this section,
As we know, a random input wave can be generated by the
linear superposition of a number of monochromatic waves.
The total supplied energy to the system was kept constant.
Bretschneider spectrum was selected to serve as the input
excitation spectrum to generate the random input wave. The
time history generated by the spectrum were shown in Figs.
22 and 23,
modal or peak frequency of the wave. The random input
excitation wave is described by,
where is time, @; the frequency of ith linear wave, and
N, the number of the linear monochromatic waves. 4; and
Y; are the wave amplitude and phase of each linear wave,
respectively. @; and 丰 ; are a set of random variables
within a pre-selected range.
and w, = l
N, denotes the number of linear waves superposed to
create the random wave. In the present case, N,, is chosen to
be 512 since such a high number ensures that a lot of
frequencies within a given range contribute towards the
generation of the random wave. The range of the angular
frequencies is set as [0, 5w,] as the frequencies above
5 @p do not have a significant contribution towards the
generation of the random wave. In the present case, w, is
taken equal to the first natural frequency of the system w
which is 3.759 371 rad/s.
From Fig, 22, it is evident that in the energy spectrum, the
wave energy (Sc ) has the highest values around the modal
or peak frequency (wp ), hence a large number of angular
frequencies were chosen in the narrow band around the
value, . Around 150 values of angular frequencies were
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 298-314
selected randomly in the range of [2.5, 5.0] which was a
very narrow band around the peak frequency marked as 4 in
Fig. 22 and B represents the range [0.0, 2.5] and 62 values
of angular frequencies are selected randomly in this range.
As can be seen from Fig. 22, the energies in this range were
near to zero and hence have negligible contribution in the
energy of the final generated random wave. Band C, D and
E represent the ranges [5.0, 10.0], [10.0, 15.0] and [15.0,
5, ] and 100 values of angular frequencies were selected
use of a fixed seed number and a custom built function
energy spectrum for angular frequencies above 10.0 rad/s
falls well below 0.01x107% J, hence less number of
where Aw is nothing but, the difference between adjacent
angular frequencies (Aw = @;,; ― @;).
5.5.2 Selection of the phase angle (vy; )
selected random values of angular frequencies ( @; ),
amplitudes (4 and phase angles (y; ) in Eq. (80), we can
excitation for an initial steepness of 0.288 and w, =a; - In
the case of random excitation in vertical direction,the
311
equal to twice the first mode (parametric resonance)
irrespective of initial perturbation. Fig. 26 shows the surface
non-dimensional time step Af = 0.6 units. The surface plots
show a half cycle of wave’s movement. The frames were
shown for a wave steepness K, = 0.040 16.
steepness of 0.288; w, = l
steepness of 0.288 and w, = a;
6 Conclusions
cases presented herein, it eliminated the need for free
non-overturning and non-breaking waves. Present results
were compared with the benchmark solutions of Faltinsen et
Journal of Marine Science and Application (2013) 12: 298-314
different initial conditions for liquid free surface and finally,
3D container with random excitation in the vertical direction.
A fully non-linear inviscid numerical model was developed
based on potential flow theory with the mapped governing
using finite difference method. Results of liquid sloshing
induced by harmonic base excitations were presented for
mode] was validated for use of any water depth, with the
exception of shallow and deep water sloshing. An error
estimation method was used to estimate the error for all
iterations to serve as a basis for stopping the iterative solver
when the steady state results are reached. The model was
validated for different wave length and steepness. Good
agreement was found between present and previously
published theoretical solutions for the same type of test
excited containers were carried out for the stable region
conditions. Sloshing effects in a vertically excited container
in stable regions display similar characteristics as free
sloshing motions in a fixed container when the forcing
parameter (K,) is low. The phase plane diagrams showed the
nonlinearity of the free surface waves with respect to time.
Initially, the wave elevation time history were observed for
first few modes of sloshing on the free surface at the left wall
for 2D regular (case A) and 3D regularly excited container
with two initial profiles (case B and C) in vertical direction.
The wave elevation time histories were plotted at different
locations of the free surface. The wave elevation time history
at a particular point on the free surface in the domain was then
compared for cases A, B and C. Near the container wall the
wave elevations were more due to the wall effect while the
center of the container had low wave elevation profiles. The
2D and 3D container with initial profile 1 had similar wave
elevation time history. If nonlinearity in the axial direction is
increased by using profile 1 and 2 i.e. a linear superposition of
two sinusoidal wave profiles, the 3D container will show a
different wave elevation time history. The free surface
elevation got the intricate shapes for the case C. Sloshing in
randomly excited container in vertical direction was also
studied. Bretschneider spectrum is selected to serve as the
input excitation spectrum to generate the random input wave.
The ratio of the excitation frequency and the natural
frequency of the system ( {2 ) was kept as 1.253 in the study.
Hence, the results reported were from the stable regions only.
Nomenclature
A Wave amplitude
A; Wave amplitude of ith linear wave
A, Transverse excitation amplitude
2 Length of the container
DT" Transverse acceleration of the container
313
E, Amplitude-length ratio (=4/b)
Ey Volume error
h Instant water height from container bottom
厅 Significant wave height
K, K: Wave numbers along the X and Z directions
K, Forcing parameter for vertical acceleration
亿 Wave steepness
n Mode number of oscillation
N,, Number of linear monochromatic waves
t Time
W Axial width of the container
Greek symbols
@, , Natural angular frequency of sloshing
Dy Angular frequency of vertical excitations
五套盒i董'冒羞亡′(言皇l董菖'l二亡ti()l′lofthecontainerinvertical
i Phase angle of ith linear wave
D “ Frequency of ith linear wave
?, oon or peak frequency of the wave
$c Wave energy due to Bretschneider spectrum
G Iteration error at n? iteration
6 Free-surface elevation
C Grid Stretching Factor
d(x, y,1) ay potential function in physical domain
8Crg,7) 彗萱重T(董薯l:重】t箕 api function in computational
力 Spotl radius hd the largest eigen value of
工 Container displacement
丕(宣 5, poner second order central difference
frequency of vertical excitations.
