小型飞机座舱加温系统原理及使用维护分析
以小型飞行培训教练机PA44-180双发四座飞机为例,针对其座舱加温系统从构造、工作原理以及组成等方面进行论述,重点针对近三年该系统发生的各类故障进行统计分析,并提出了该系统在日常使用维护过程中的重点注意事项。

座舱加温机 燃烧风扇 点火组件  

934 EXPLORATION ON KEYES’S MODEL OF MENTAL HEALTH
complexity of the relationship between exercise and SWB is that the type and extent of the psychological benefits
(and decrements) of exercise may differ for specific groups of participants. Participants may vary in age from
pre-schoolers to the elderly and include normal and psychiatric populations. Despite such complex issues, there is
a strong consensus that many types of exercise are associated with enhanced SWB, vigour or vitality, and a sense
of “feeling better” (Netz et al., 2005; Osei-Tutu & Campagna, 2005; Berger et al., 2002). In France, there are few
studies of SWB in sport and exercise psychology, partly because of the lack of valid and reliable scales to
measure this construct. So, a validation of a French version of SWB scales would be important for studying in
order to evaluate this construct for French speakers.
The long-standing “clinical tradition” operationalizes
well-being through measures of depression, distress,
anxiety, or substance abuse, whereas the “psychological tradition” operationalizes well-being in terms of one’s
subjective evaluation of life satisfaction. The latter
tradition is reflected in the considerable breadth of
literature in psychology, yet, as Ryff and Keyes (1995) noted that “the absence of theory-based formulations of
well-being is puzzling” (p. 719). These authors further noted the need for developing theoretical models
for testing the fit of such models with empirical data
and for conducting theory-guided structural analyses.
The development of comprehensive theoretical models requires a working elaboration of the concept of
well-being.
SWB reflects the multidimensional evaluation of a person’s life and includes cognitive judgments of life
satisfaction and affective evaluations of moods and emotions. It is a major contributor to quality of life and can
be conceptualized as a momentary state or as a relatively stable trait, depending on the time frame of the
assessment period (Diener, 1994). SWB must include
at least three components: (1) It should be subjective,
reflecting a concern for how the individual views himself/herself; (2) It should include positive indices of an
individual’s sentiments toward life as opposed to negative ones; and (3) It should be global to encompass
all areas of an individual’s life (Hattie, Myers, & Sweeney, 2004). In sum, SWB should be composed of
three major constructs: (1) the presence of positive effects; (2) the absence of negative effects; and (3) high
levels of life satisfaction (Diener, 1994 ; Diener & Suh, 2000). Happiness is considered synonymous with
SWB.
Many studies of hedonic well-being have shown that it consists of two main dimensions, the first being how
satisfied you are with your life overall, and the second being the emotions that one experiences in a typical month
(e.g., how frequently one experiences happiness, joy, or contentment). The domain of functioning well in life
consists of psychological and social well-being. Psychological well-being consists of dimensions, such as
self-acceptance, purpose in life, personal growth, positive relations with others, autonomy, and environmental
mastery. Social well-being consists of acceptance of
others, a sense of social contribution, feeling socially
integrated, an interest in society and “what is going on”,
and a sense of social growth (Keyes, 1998). Thus, when
the six dimensions of psychological well-being are combined with the five dimensions of social well-being, there
are at least 11 different signs of positive functioning in life. With the two dimensions of hedonic well-being,
which represent whether and how much one feels good
about life, the set of 13 dimensions of SWB provides a
comprehensive assessment of the overall quality of life.
Mental Illness and Mental Well-Being Form Two Continua in the Population
Mental health can be seen as a continuum, where
an individual’s mental health may have many different
EXPLORATION ON KEYES’
S MODEL OF MENTAL HEALTH 935
possible values (Keyes, 2002). The theory that the measures of mental health and mental illness belong to latent
continua was tested using data from a representative sample of American adults between 25 and 74 years old.
Three scales served as indicators of mental health: (1) the summed scale of emotional well-being (i.e., single item
of satisfaction + single item of happiness + scale of positive effect); (2) the summed scale of psychological
well-being (i.e., six scales summed together); and (3) the summed scale of social well-being (i.e., the fives scales
summed together). Four summary measures served as
indicators of mental illness, based on the number of
symptoms of four mental disorders: generalized anxiety, panic disorder, major depressive episode, and alcohol
dependence (Keyes, 2007; Keyes, Wissing, Potgieter, Temane, Kruger, & Van Rooy, 2008). Another study is
based on three mental disorders symptoms: anxiety and depression, social dysfunction, and loss of confidence
(Salama-Younes, Montazeri, Ismail, & Roncin, 2009).
Two competing theories were tested. The single factor model hypothesizes that the measures of mental
health and mental illness reflect a single latent factor, support for which would indicate that the absence of mental
illness implies the presence of mental health. The two-factor model hypothesizes that the measures of mental
illness represent the latent factor of mental health that
is distinct from, but correlated with the latent factor of
mental illness that is represented by the measures of mental illness. The data strongly supported the two-factor
model, which was a nearly perfect fitting model to the MIDUS (Midlife Development in the United States) data
(Keyes, 2005).
As predicted, there is a modest association between mental health and mental illness; level of mental health
tends to increase as level of mental illness decreases. However, the modest correlation suggests that the latent
constructs of mental health and mental illness are distinctive. This distinctiveness raises the empirical question of
the risk of an episode of mental illness as levels of mental health decrease. Languishing adults report the highest
prevalence of any of the four mental disorders as well as the highest prevalence of reporting two or more mental
disorders during the past year. In contrast, flourishing individuals report the lowest prevalence of any of the four
12-month mental disorders or their comorbidity. Compared with languishing or flourishing, moderately mentally
healthy adults were at intermediate risk of any of the mental disorders or two or more mental disorders during the
past year. Thus, the 12-month risk of major depressive illness, for example, is over five times greater for
languishing than flourishing adults.
Support for the two-factor model provides the strongest scientific evidence to date in support of the
complete health approach to mental health. The evidence indicates that the absence of mental illness does not
imply the presence of mental health, and the absence of mental health does not imply the presence of mental
illness. Thus, neither the pathogenic nor the salutogenic approaches alone accurately describe the mental health
of a population. Rather, mental health is a complete state
that is best studied through the combined assessments of
mental health with mental illness. Complete mental health is a state, in which individuals are free of mental
illness and they are flourishing. Of course, flourishing may sometimes occur with an episode of mental illness,
and moderate mental health and languishing can occur both with and without a mental illness.
Flourishing Mental Health is Even Better Than Moderate Mental Health
To have “complete mental health”, one must be flourishing and free of most common mental disorders over
the past years. Research has supported the hypothesis that anything less than complete mental health results in
increased impairment and disability. For example, adults diagnosed as completely mentally healthy functioned
superior to all others in terms of reporting the fewest workdays missed, fewest workdays cutback by one-half, the
936 EXPLORATION ON KEYES’
S MODEL OF MENTAL HEALTH
lowest rate of cardiovascular disease, the lowest level of health limitations of activities of daily living, the fewest
chronic physical diseases and conditions, the lowest
self-reported resilience (e.g., they try to learn from adversities), and the highest level of intimacy (e.g., they have
were languishing (Keyes, 2007).
Just over 20% of adults in the MIDUS study had
an episode of at least one of the four mental disorders.
However, and very importantly, levels of mental health differentiate levels of impairment and disability even
among adults who have had a mental illness in the past year. Adults with a mental illness who had either
moderate level of mental health or were flourishing reported fewer workdays missed, fewer workdays cutback,
and fewer health limitations of daily living than those
who were languishing and had a mental illness. Thus,
languishing individuals who also had one or more mental disorders functioned worse than all others on every
criterion. Adults with a mental illness who also had either moderate mental health or flourishing function no
worse than adults who were languishing and did not have a mental disorder. Thus, mental illness that is combined
with languishing is more dysfunctional than the situation when a mental illness occurs in the context of moderate
mental health or flourishing.
Another published paper investigated the association of the complete mental health diagnoses with chronic
physical conditions associated with age (Keyes, 2005). The complete mental health diagnosis was associated
with 85% of the chronic physical conditions measured in the MIDUS study. The prevalence of chronic physical
conditions was the highest among adults who are languishing and had an episode of major depression, and the
lowest among completely mentally healthy adults. The
prevalence of chronic physical conditions was slightly
higher among moderately mentally healthy adults than completely mentally healthy adults, whereas languishing
adults reported even more chronic conditions than adults with moderate mental health.
Overall, adults with major depression and languishing had an average of 4.5 chronic conditions. Adults with
depression but who also had moderate mental health or flourishing had an average of 3.1 chronic conditions,
which was the same as adults who were languishing but without any mental illness. Moderately mentally healthy
adults without any mental illness had an average of 2.1 chronic conditions, compared with adults with complete
mental health who had on average of 1.5 chronic conditions. When compared against completely mentally
healthy adults, chronic physical conditions increased as the level of mental health decreased. It is noteworthy that
mental health status was a significant predictor of chronic physical conditions, even after adjustment for the usual
sociodemographic variables, as well as body mass index, diabetes status, smoking status, and level of physical
exercise.
In sum, in psychology and physical activities, there are a few studies that have tested the factorial structure
and the internal consistency for different aspects of well-being scales. In addition, knowledge about relation
among mental, psychological, and physical well-being aspects is rare, especially for physically old adults. So, our
main purposes of this study were: (1) the development and psychometric testing of a number of SWB scales (i.e.,
emotional, physical, psychological, and social aspects) with French physically active old adults; and (2) testing
the relationships among these different aspects.
EXPLORATION ON KEYES’S MODEL OF MENTAL HEALTH 937
Methods
Participants and Procedure
Using “forward and backward” translation by four bilingual individuals, experimental French versions
equivalents to the original following scales were created.
More precisely, the original scales were translated from
English into French by two bilingual persons. The two translated versions were then back translated into English
by two independent translators. Translators were not
affiliated with the study to ensure comparability and
meaning equivalence (Vallerand & Halliwell, 1983; Vallerand & Hess, 2000). Using the different versions,
authors have created the French version for each scale. An independent professional has revised the created
French versions. In general, minor differences were corrected at this stage by agreement between the different
translations. The participants of this study were aged French physically active people between 57 and 77 years
old (M = 62.28, SD = 4.78). There were 401 women and 262 men (n = 663) from Rennes city (i.e., Villejean,
Centre-ville, Beaulieu, Maurepas, Zip Sud, and Cleunay). They practiced a range of team and individual physical
activities. Currently, they were practicing their activities at least three times per week. We used in these two
studies with four scales: (1) the MHC-SF (Mental Health Continuum-Short Form); (2) the GHQ-12 (General
Health Questionnaire-12); (3) the SVS (Subjective Vitality Scale); and (4) the SWLS (Satisfaction With Life
Scale). We used the French versions which have been established in previous studies (Salama-Younes et al., 2009;
Ismail & Salama-Younes, 2011) and the short versions of the MHC-SF, the GHQ-12, and the SVS.
Authors informed samples about the objective of the study, their participation was voluntary and they could
withdraw at any time. Both oral and written instructions were given regarding items understanding (i.e., There
was no right or wrong answer to the questions and they should freely state what they think), and they were
reassured about the confidentiality of their responses.
Measures
MHC-SF. The MHC-SF (Keyes, 2007) consists
of 14 items. It measures the degree of: (1) emotional
as described in Keyes’ (1998) model of social well-being (one item on each of the facets of social acceptance,
social actualization, social contribution, social coherence, and social integration); and (3) psychological
well-being (items 9-14) as described in Ryff’s (1989) model (including one item on each of the dimensions of
autonomy, environmental mastery, personal growth,
positive relations with others, purpose in life, and
self-acceptance). Short versions have been used in many
cultures, such as South Africa, USA, and Iran. In France,
it has exploited by Salama-Younes, Ismail, Montazeri, and Roncin (2011).
GHQ-12. Each item of the GHQ-12 (Goldberg & Williams, 1988) assesses the severity of a mental problem
over the past few weeks using a 4-point Likert-type scale (from 0-3). The score was used to generate a total score
ranging from 0-36. This questionnaire was validated in
many countries and languages (e.g., Spanish, Japanese,
Chinese, French, etc.). It has rarely been used with physical activity samples (Salama-Younes et al., 2009).
SVS. According to Ryan and Frederick (1997), the concept of subjective vitality refers to the state of
feeling alive and alert to having energy available to oneself. Vitality is considered then as an aspect of physical
well-being. It is considered also as an aspect of eudaimonic well-being. The SVS is a short instrument to
measure vitality. A 7-point Likert Scale was used ranging from “Strongly disagree“(1-point) to “Strongly
agree” (7-point). The scale has two versions: (1) The Individual Difference Level Version that asks individuals
to respond to each of the items by indicating the degree to which the item is true for them in general in their life;
938 EXPLORATION ON KEYES’S MODEL OF MENTAL HEALTH
and (2) The State Level Version that asks individuals to respond to each items in terms of how they are feeling
right now. There is another version of the instrument that contains six items. Bostic, Rubio, and Hood (2000)
have developed this new version. Since one item from seven items was negatively worded, they excluded this
item to yield a better fitting model for their data. The questionnaire is a brief measure of vitality and it is simple
and easy to complete. In this study, we used this short version that consists of six items and purposes to evaluate
the individual difference level. It has rarely been used with physical activity sample (Salama-Younes et al.,
2009).
SWLS. Life satisfaction is a more general construct of SWB. Theory and research from outside of the
rehabilitation fields have suggested that SWB has at
least three components: positive affective appraisal,
negative affective appraisal, and life satisfaction. Life satisfaction is distinguished from affective appraisal in that
it is more cognitively than emotionally driven. Life satisfaction can be assessed specific to a particular domain of
life (e.g., work and family) or globally. The SWLS is a global measure of life satisfaction. The SWLS composes
of five items. A 7-point Likert Scale was used ranging
from “Strongly disagree” (1-point) to “Strongly agree”
(7-point). The SWLS is a measure of life satisfaction developed by Diener, Emmons, Larsen, and Griffin (1985).
The SWLS is shown to have favourable psychometric properties for French speaking in Canada (Vallerand, Blais,
Briére, & Pelletier, 1989). It is noted that the SWLS is translated and used in a very wide countries and suited for
use with different age groups (Diener, 2009; Diener, Kahneman, & Helliwell, 2010).
Results and Discussion
The SPSS (Statistic Package for Social Sciences)
18.00 was used to perform the EFA (exploratory factor
analyses) and the internal consistency (Cronbach alpha a). The LISREL (Linear Structural Relations) 8.7
computer program was used for testing the CFA (confirmatory factor analyses). Firstly, we tested the internal
consistency (Cronbach alpha ?) by SPSS software. Secondly, using LISREL software, we tested the CFA and
examined the correlation among different well-being aspects (see Table 1).
Internal consistency that tests reliability was assessed by calculating the Cronbach’s coefficient. The
values of 0.70 or greater were considered satisfactory. After being tested the factor structure by EFA, we
performed CFA to assess the five instruments’ structure for each sample. The intention was to indicate if the
model fits well the data. There are varying suggestions in the literature about the number, type, and cut-off
values for goodness-of-fit required to be reported for
CFA (Byrne, 2009). A popular recommendation is to
present three of four indices from different areas. Accordingly, we report several goodness-of-fit indicators
acceptable values are > 0.90 for GFI and NFI. The RMR and RMSEA test the fit of the model to the covariance
matrix. As a guideline, values below 0.05 indicate a close fit and values below 0.11 are an acceptable fit. The
value of 2 alone may be used as an index, but 2 divided by the degrees of freedom (2/df) reduces its sensitivity to
sample size (cut-off values < 2-5).
For physically old adults, the GFIs for SWLS, MHC-SF, GHQ-12, and SVS were acceptable in terms of
XVqYratio, GFI, RMR, and RMSEA. The factor structure and internal consistency of the four scales have tested
only for physical education students (Salama-Younes, 2011). For exemple, we present the CFA result of
MHC-SF for French youth.
EXPLORATION ON KEYES’S MODEL OF MENTAL HEALTH 939
Table 1
Bi-dimensionality of the Complete Mental Health Model
Item Factor 1 Factor 2 M
SD Skewness Kurtosis
MHC-FS 1 0. 73 - 4.79 1.04 -0.97 1.09
MHC-FS 2 0.62 - 4.84 1.26 -1.28 1.15
MHC-FS 3 0.58 - 4.31 1.06 -0.84 0.59
MHC-FS 4 0.43 - 2.90 1.37 0.48 -0.44
MHC-FS 5 0.49 - 4.67 1.57 -0.87 -0.59
MHC-FS 6 0.52 - 1.87 1.13 1.46 1.84
MHC-FS 7 0.46 - 2.99 1.28 0.23 -0.63
MHC-FS 8 0.44 - 2.5
1 1.33 0.66 -0.37
MHC-FS 9 0.42 - 4.2
8 1.34 -0.71 -0.37
MHC-FS 10 0.46 - 4.18 1.38 -0.69 -0.43
MHC-FS 11 0.49 - 4.83 1.07 -1.26 1.51
MHC-FS 12 0.52 - 3.45 1.42 0.11 -1.03
MHC-FS 13 0.47 - 4.30 1.42 -0.70 -0.42
MHC-FS 14 0.46 - 4.06 1.58 -0.28 -1.18
GHQ 1 - 0.43 1.66 0.70 -0.93 3.02
GHQ 2 - 0.49 0.66 0.78 0.80 -0.51
GHQ 3 - 0.47 1.7
1 0.66 -1.39 2.23
GHQ 4 - 0.42 1.57 0.77 -1.37 0.09
GHQ 5 - 0.44 1.12 0.82 -0.23 -1.47
GHQ 6 - 0.41 1.2
1 0.84 -0.42 -1.47
GHQ 7 - 0.54 1.66 0.70 -1.43 1.55
GHQ 8 - 0.48 1.56 0.67 -1.22 0.21
GHQ 9 - 0.41 0.78 0.87 0.53 -1.26
GHQ 10 - 0.51 0.94 0.88 0.12 -1.69
GHQ 11 - 0.52 0.62 0.87 0.83 -1.16
GHQ 12 - 0.40 1.59 0.64 -1.22 1.12
Propre value 8.69 5.65 -
% of variance 33.87 21.98 -
Table 2
Goodness-of-Fit of the CFA Models (n = 636)
Scale 古 少 GFI NFI
Notes: 卫 <0.01 and “*p < 0.001.
We concluded that the four scales have an acceptable factor structure for physically old adults. In the
exercise psychology domain, we have few studies concerning these variables. So that results presented here are
940 EXPLORATION ON KEYES’S MODEL OF MENTAL HEALTH
Table 3
Correlations Among Different Variables for Physically Active Old Adults
Notes. *"p < 0.01 and 心 <0.05.
Relations Among the Different Variables
Negative and significant correlation between the GHQ-12 and the MHC-SF sub-scale was obtained (see
Table 3). It isranged between r= -0.13 and -0.56, p < 0.01. The negative correlation among GHQ-12, total scores
of MHC-SF, and the sub-scales was confirmed in different countries, for exemple, in South of Africa (Keyes et
respectively. This finding is similar to the results of Keyes et al. (2008). In other side, the correlation between
the MHC-SF total and sub-scores with SV and SWLS is
significantly positive (r= 0.28 to 0.88, p < 0.01). In our
knowledge, for physically old adults samples, there is the first investigation to test the correlation among the
and positive construct indicating that those who were more distressed showed lower levels of mental well-being,
subjective vitality, and satisfaction with life.
Diseussion
Objectives of this study were: (1) the development and psychometric testing of a number of SWB scales (i.e.,
emotional, physical, psychological, and social aspects) with physical education students in France; and (2) testing
the relationships among these different aspects. The MHC-SF is actually known as a continuum for evaluating
Salama-Younes et al, 2011; Salama-Younes et al,
2009). The GHQ-12 is a well-known instrument for
measuring minor psychological distress and has been translated into a variety of languages (Salama-Younes et al.,
2009). However, it was not used for indicating a specific diagnosis for active people. This study reports data from
a validation study of the MHC-SF and 12-item GHQ in France. This model has been investigated in different
countries but not for physically active people (Salama-Younes, 2011). In general, the findings showed
In addition, for the first time, we reported data on the SVS and the SWLS for physically active old adults from
France lending support to its validity for using these instruments in French populations.
The findings from present study showed that the French versions of the MHC-SF and the GHQ-12 are a
valid measure for testing a mental well-being and mental illness from a complet mental health perspective
(positive and negative aspects). Although this model shows valid in many countries, it has not yet been studied
for physically active old adults. The findings from our study indicate that the SV and the SWLS are valid scales
for this population.
EXPLORATION ON KEYES’S MODEL OF MENTAL HEALTH 941
Adults with a mental illness who had either moderate mental health or flourishing reported more work-days
missed or more work cutbacks than languishing adults (Westerhof & Keyes, 2010). However, languishing adults
reported the same level of health limitations of daily living and worse levels of psychosocial functioning than
adults with a mental illness who also had moderate
mental health or flourishing. Individuals who were
completely mentally ill―that is, languishing and one or more of the mental disorders―functioned worse than all
others on every criterion. In general, adults with a mental illness who also had either moderate mental health or
flourishing functioned no worse than adults who were
languishing and did not have a mental disorder. Thus,
mental illness that combined with languishing is more dysfunctional than the situation in which a mental illness
occurs in the context of moderate mental health or flourishing. In the next manuscript, we will test: (1) the effect
of the three categories of complete mental health (flourishing, moderately, and languishing) on perceived
physical health; and (2) the structural equation modelling among the three categories and these different
variables.
