星敏感器像平面移位误差的分析与校正
星敏感器在长时间工作后会产生三种像平面移位误差，即主点漂移误差、倾斜误差与旋转误差。星敏感器的像平面移位误差会严重影响其测量精度。以往关于星敏感器像平面移位误差的研究仅考虑了像平面三自由度的主点漂移误差。而文中还考虑了星敏感器像平面在剩余三个自由度下的移位误差，即倾斜误差和旋转误差，从而提出了一种新的星敏感器六自由度像平面移位误差模型。最后，利用扩展卡尔曼滤波方法在轨标定了星敏感器的六自由度像平面移位误差。仿真结果显示该方法将星敏感器的测量精度大幅提高到了0.23″，因此新的星敏感器像平面移位误差模型弥补了旧模型的不足，显著提高了星敏感器的工作性能。

星敏感器 移位 标定 扩展卡尔曼滤波  

0 Introduction
The aerospace area is attaching more and more
importance to high-accuracy attitude determination and
control of spacecraft. And the spacecraft「 s accuracy
depends on the accuracy of its attitude determination
instrument. Star sensor is the most accurate attitude
determination instrument nowadays, and it's essentially
an optical system working in space. A long time
working in space will displace star sensor’ 8 image
plane and decrease its measuring accuracy. And the
micro star sensors, which are becoming more and
more popular nowadays, need the consideration of
image plane displacement especially.
Image plane displacement is the main factor to
influence star sensor’ s measuring accuracy. The
previous researches on image plane displacement have
only considered the principal point drift0-3, and there is
less than adequate attention given to the incline
displacement and the rotation displacement. Most
image planes of star sensor are CCD planel4. And the
CCD star sensor has the highest accuracy, for
example, the American AST -301 star sensor’ s
accuracy!51 is 0.18". A high accuracy of star sensor
demands consideration of as many kinds of
displacement as possible.
There are many researches on the calibration method
of star sensotr「s displacement. And the displacement can
be calibrated either under the earth-based experimental
environment or the space environmentl6-8、The on-orbit
calibration of star sensor「8 displacement is meaningful
inasmuch as most displacements come into being after
a long time working in space. There are many
algorithms to on-orbit calibrate the star sensor
displacement., such as the Least Square Method
(LSM), the Kalman Filter (KF), the Extended Kalman
Filter (EKF), and the Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF).
Considering the mathematical nature of image plane
displacement, the accuracy and computation requirement
of different algorithms, EKF is chosen to on-orbit
calibrate the star sensor’ s six-degree-of-freedom
displacement.
1 Conventional model of star sensor's
image plane displacement
Star sensor can be divided into three parts, that
are the optical system, the image plane and the data
processing system. The conventional model of star
sensor「 s image plane displacement can be described
by Fig.1, and the principal point drift is the only kind
of displacement considered in this model. In Fig.1,
OXsV7sZs is the star sensor coordinate system without
displacement, O'X,'Y'Zs' is the star sensor coordinate
system with displacement,(xoyo) is the principal point
drift in X-Z direction, f, is the principal point drift in
Z direction, f is the distance between the focus point
of the optical system and the image plane without
displacement, 广 is the distance with displacement.
Fig.1 Conventional model of star sensor's image plane displacement
Suppose the number i(i=1,---,n) target star「s imaging
point in the star sensor coordinate system is (x;y.).
When there is no image plane displacement, the target
star’ s direction vector in the star sensor coordinate
system 1s
Suppose there is image plane displacement and
the image plane displacement is described by (xoyouh),
the target star’ s direction vector in the star sensor
coordinate system is:
- Tee TT ―
The star sensor imagery corresponds with the
ephemeris stored by the data processing system.
Suppose the number i target star「s direction vector in
the inertial coordinate system is:
in which ?; and 8 are respectively the target star「 s
right ascension and declination. Based on the principal
of angular distance「s equality, the relationship between
the target star’ s direction vector in the star sensor
coordinate system and the corresponding one in the
inertial coordinate system can be illuminated as
希,卵-白吴(4
Then with the principal of angular distance’ s
equality, the attitude of satellite can be determined by
matching the stellar map.
Fig.2 and Fig.3 are the analysis results of star
sensor image plane「 s principal point drift, in which
r=Vx*+y* is the distance between the imaging point
and the principal point, dr is the principal point drift
in X-Y direction, df is the principal point drift in Z
direction. It can be easily seen from Fig.2 and Fig.3
that the measuring error caused by the principal point
drift in X -Y direction is becoming bigger as the
imaging point access the principal point, while the
measuring error caused by the principal point drift in
Z direction is becoming smaller as the imaging point
access the principal point. When r=15 mm, both a
0.000 3 mm drift in X-Y direction and a 0.001 mm
drift in Z direction can engender a measuring error of
star sensor bigger than 1 second of arc. Hence the
image plane「s principal point drift has a big influence
on star sensor's measuring accuracy, and the principal
point drift must be calculated.
However, the principal point drift is only one
other two kinds of displacement are the incline
displacement and the rotation displacement,and they
also have an un-negligible influence on star sensor「 s
measuring accuracy. The six-degree-of-freedom image
plane displacement includes the principal point drift,
the incline displacement and the rotation displacement.
With the enhancement of star sensor’ s measuring
accuracy and the emergence of micro star sensor,the
six-degree-of-freedom image plane displacement
should be considered and calibrated, not only the
Principal point drift.
Fig.2 Analysis of image plane「s principal point drift in X-￥ direction
Fig.3 Analysis of image plane「s principal point drift in Z direction
2 Incline displacement of star sensor's
image plane
Satellite may endure occasional oscillations when
it is working in space!?!, and the irregular thermal
environment in space can also displace star sensor’s
image plane!-). Many different factors cause the
incline displacement of star sensor「s image plane.
“ Fig.4 is the model of .image plane’ s incline
displacement, in which S, is the image plane without
incline displacement, S, is the image plane with
coordinate system without incline displacement,
OX,Y,Z, is the star sensor coordinate system with
incline displacement, and the axis Z, is the optical
axis of the optical system.
Focal point
Fig.4 Incline displacement model of star sensor「s image plane
Suppose the inclination vector is (a,b,0) in the
coordinate system OX,Y,Z,, and the angle of inclination
is a. As a result, the direction cosine matrix of the
coordinate system OX,Y,Z, relative to the coordinate
system OX,Y.Z, is
imaging point A in the coordinate system OX. YZ,
(x,y,0) be the coordinate of imaging point A in the
coordinate system OX,Y,Z,, and there will be equations
below.
The coordinate of imaging point A in the
coordinate system can be gotten with equation 7.
The point A in Fig.4 is the imaging point with
the incline displacement, and the imaging point will
change to A’ if there is no incline displacement. With
the point A’s coordinate (I,m,n) in the coordinate
system OX,Y,Z, the point A's coordinate (x「,y「 ,0) in
the coordinate system OXV:Z,。can be gotten, and
(x’,y’,0) is the calibrated imaging point.
Suppose the inclination vector (a,b,0) is an unit
vector, and b=\/1-a* . Then the parameters of image
plane「s incline displacement are (a,a). It can be seen
from the parameters that the incline displacement of
star sensor「s image plane is a two-degree-of-freedom
displacement.
Define the angle of incidence as the angle
between target star「 s direction vector and the optical
axis, and the angle of incidence in Fig.5 is 17.45°. It
can be seen from Fig.5 that when the angle of
inclination a=0.02°, the measuring error of star sensor
is above 15”. And every kind of displacement which
causes a measuring error bigger than 0.5” should be
considered and calibrated. Therefore the incline
displacement of image plane also has a big influence
on the measuring accuracy of star sensor. The incline
displacement of star sensor「 s image plane should be
calibrated.
Fig.5 Analysis of image plane's incline displacement
image plane
The terrible space environment can causes
rotation displacement of star sensor’ s image plane.
And Fig.6 is the model of star sensor image plane s
rotation displacement.
In Fig.6, OX,Y,Z is the coordinate system of star
sensor without rotation displacement, OX,Y,Z is the
coordinate system of star sensor with rotation
displacement. If the rotation vector is Z axis and the
angle of rotation is 4 the direction cosine matrix of
the coordinate system OX,Y,Z relative to the
coordinate system OX,Y.Z is:
The coordinate of imaging point C is (x’,y’,0) in
the coordinate system OX,Y,Z, and the coordinate of
imaging point C is (x’,y’,0) in the coordinate system
OX,Y,Z. Then the calibrated imaging point is:
It「s easy to see from the equation above that the
rotation displacement of star sensor「 s image plane is
an one-degree-of-freedom displacement, and the
displacement parameter is 传 .
Fig.7 is the analysis results of image plane「s
rotation displacement. The angle of incidence in Fig.7
is 17.45°. It can be seen from Fig.7 that the rotation
displacement’ s influence on star sensor’ s measuring
accuracy is also significant. It is necessary to calibrate
the star sensor image plane「s rotation displacement.
of star sensor「s image plane
The six-degree-of-freedom image plane displacement
includes the three-degree-of-freedom principal point
drift, the two-degree-of-freedom incline displacement
and the one-degree-of-freedom rotation displacement.
Three sub-kinds of displacement should all be
calibrated to increase the performance of star sensor.
Fig.8 is the six-degree-of-freedom displacement
model of star sensor’ s image plane, in which the
point A’ is the final calibrated imaging point. OX,Y.Z,
Focal point
Fig.8 Six-degree-of-freedom displacement model of star sensor's
image plane
is the coordinate system without image plane
displacement,O「 XuV:Z, is the coordinate system with
image plane displacement. Equation (12) and (13) are
the calibration equations of star sensor「s six-degree-of-
freedom image plane displacement, in which (x,y,0)’ is
the coordinate of the real imaging point A in O 「
X,Y, Z,, (x',y’f) is the coordinate of the real imaging
point A in OX,Y,Z,, (Xucw,yuew,0)“is the coordinate of
the calibrated imaging point A’ in OX,7:Z,,(0,0, 才 “ is
the coordinate of the calibrated focus point in OX,Y.Z,.
5 On-orbit calibration of star sensor’s
image plane displacement
On-orbit calibration of star sensor「s image plane
displacement can effectively increase star sensor’ s
measuring accuracy. There are many kinds of
calibration algorithm to calibrate star sensor
displacements. Considering the mathematical nature of
image plane displacement, the accuracy and
computation requirement of different algorithms, EKF
is chosen to on-orbit calibrate star sensor’ s six-
degree-of-freedom image plane displacement. EKF
can efficiently filter the nonlinear system under the
white Gaussian noise.
The theoretical basis of star sensor’ s on-orbit
calibration is the principle of angular distances’
equality. And the calibration target is (a,a,y,Xxo,Yo fo).
Based on the calibration equations in Section 5,the
system functions of on-orbit calibration are:
In which é(k) is the difference between the real
displacement parameters and the calibrated displacement
parameters, y(k) is the difference between the real
angular distances and the calibrated angular distances
after k times of iteration. They can be evinced as
follows
where is the number of imaged target stars used in
this calibration. In the system functions, w(k) is the
systematic noise and v(k) is the measured noise. They
conform to the following rules.
|E[w(D]=0, Elw(k)w(k)"1=0"(k)
| E[w(k)v(k)T]=0,
The state variable can be written as
And the processes of measurement update and
time update are:
N(k)=F (k,&(k))P(k)H"(k,&(k))x
[H(E,(D)P(DEHT(EE(D)+C“(D]
P(k+1)=F(k,￡(k))P(k)F"(k,￡(k))+Q"(k)-N(k)
Where F(k,6) and H(k,￡) are respectively the Jacobi
matrix of f(k,￡) and h(k,￡).
叹危雪)=景菖/(k逼〗圃=/(20)
Fig.9 is the EKF calibration process of star
sehsor「s six-degree-of-freedom image plane displacement.
The displacement parameters can be calibrated with
the initial value P(0) and &(0).
6 Simulation and analysis
In the simulation of on-orbit calibration, the focal
length of star sensor is 45 mm. And the six
displacement parameters are fixed as follows.
, (a,a,Woxoyo)=(0.5,0.022,0.01“,0.02 mm,
0.02 mm,0.02 mm) (22)
20 groups of target stars’ imaging data are used
in the simulation, and a certain amount of white
Gaussian noise is mixed with the imaging data. The
simulation results of on-orbit calibration are showed
by Fig.10 and Fig.11.
Fig.10 Calibration result of displacement parameters (a)
Fig.11 Calibration result of displacement parameters (b)
It can be easily seen from Fig.10 and Fig.11 that
EKF is able to calibrate star sensor「 s six-degree-of-
freedom image plane displacement effectively. And all
the six calibration results become steady when the
time of iteration is above 100. The ultimate on-orbit
calibration result is
[Aa Aa Ay Ax, Ay, Af]=(0.0002,-0.0001",0.00012”,
-0.00011mm,-0.000 12 mm,―0.000 12 mm) (23)
The measuring accuracy of star sensor has been
increased to 0.23" after the calibration. Therefore the
model of six-degree-of-freedom image plane
displacement can perfectly describe the image plane
displacement of star sensor, and the calibration method
above can effectively calibrate it.
7 Conclusion
The conventional model of star sensor「 s image
plane displacement has been analyzed and its
deficiency has been pointed out. The models of image
plane「s incline displacement and rotation displacement
have been built and their influences on star sensor’ s
measuring accuracy have been analyzed. The model of
star sensor’ s six-degree-of-freedom image plane
displacement has been built ultimately and the
Extended Kalman Filter is utilized to calibrate the
displacement. The simulation results show that the
calibration method can effectively calibrate star sensor「 s
image plane displacement and increase star sensor's
measuring accuracy. Therefore the six-degree-of-
freedom model and the on-orbit calibration method are
practically meaningful. Future work researching on
star sensor’ s working environment is needed to
determine the magnitude of image plane displacement
and further certify the six-degree-of-freedom model of
image plane displacement.
