神奇的“隐身衣”
一日中午,在日本东京大学校园里,一名研究生身穿着一件带帽子的灰色衣服走动,老师和同学们惊奇地发现：他的身体居然是透明的!人们可以透过他的身躯,看到在他背后来往走动的人群。大家都不敢相信自己的眼睛,还以为是撞见＂鬼＂了。后来人们才明白,原来是那件灰色衣服使这位研究生成了透明的＂隐身人＂。

隐身衣 隐身人 相信自己 日本东京大学 摄像技术 定向反射 章教授 奇异的 能将  

The laser gyroscope, as an important inertial sensor,
is a decisive factor that affects the accuracy of the inertial
navigation 叮Stem〔]〕 . The work center frequency is the
measurement benchmark of laser gyroscope, whose stabil-
ity has a direct impact on the measuring accuracy of laser
gyroscope[21、Due to the influence of such factors as tem-
perature and mechanical ditherr341 , laser gyroscope work
center frequency changes within a certain range. The
analysis of the principle of the laser gyroscope work fre-
quency drift indicates that laser gyroscope work center
frequency changes mainly with the laser refractive index
of laser gyroscope resonator cavity and the resonator cavi-
ty length. For now, in order to stabilize the work frequen-
cy of laser gyroscope, the method of active control of cav-
ity length compensation is usually adopted, that is, the
cavity length control system. However, existing cavity
length control systems use only the DC component of the
light intensity modulated signal as a feedback signal of the
control system, so there are some problems in control pre-
cision, system noise, and adjustment time. Besides, with
those systems, little improvement will be made in the ac-
curacy of cavity length controlling. Aiming at this, this
paper puts forward a new control scheme of cavity length,
designs an active cavity length compensation control sys-
tem, optimizes the existing cavity length control circuits,
and improves the measuring accuracy of laser gyroscope.
1 The control principle and method of laser
gyroscope cavity length
1. 1 The control principle of cavity length
According to the classic theory of the laser,the lon-
gitudinal mode frequency in the ring laser optical resona-
tor can be expressed as
where n is the refractive index of medium inside the re-
sonator cavity; L is resonator cavity length; 4 is integer,
each value of 6 respectively corresponding to a longitudi-
nal mode; and c is the speed of light in vacuum.
From Eq. (1), it can be seen that the major factors
which affect the longitudinal mode frequency are the cavi-
ty length L and the refractive index n. Obviously, the key
to stabilizing the working point of laser gyroscope is to
stabilize the refractive index and the cavity length.
1.2 The control method of cavity length
The refractive index can be controlled by controlling
the temperature of the medium in the laser, but it is hard
to stabilize. Generally, the laser frequency is stabilized
by stabilizing the cavity length , i. e. ,selecting the mate-
rial with a small coefficient of linear expansion as the re-
sonator cavity, and then the change in refractive index
can be greatly reduced. In addition, the devices for initi-
atively controlling the cavity length are necessary. Initia-
tive feedback compensation is generally used to adjust the
cavity length. This paper adopts the way of controlling
cavity length to achieve frequency stabilization.
Due to the difficulty in measuring laser frequency,
from analysis we know that the laser gyroscope at a longi-
tudinal mode frequency meets the standing wave condi-
tions and the light intensity is the strongest. As shown in
Fig. 1 each of the light intensity maximum points ( longi-
tudinal mode) corresponds to a cavity length 〈 frequen-
cy). Therefore, in practical applications, by detecting
the laser gyroscope output light intensity signal as the
feedback control signal, cavity length is stabilized at the
desired value, though laser frequency is stable in a longi-
tudinal mode.
Fig. 1 Relationship between laser gyroscope light
output signal and cavity length
For the cavity length control system of laser gyro-
scope, most of them use classic dither control method,
which is to superimpose smaller sinusoidal modulation
voltage on the PZT driving voltage, so that the resonant
cavity length will change periodically. Meanwhile, the
longitudinal mode frequency of the resonator will change
accordingly, thus causing the modulation of output light
intensity 甄gnal… , which is the basic method of control-
ling dither. Fig. 2 intuitively shows its working process
and the relationship between the laser gyroscope working
point and the light intensity modulated signal.
Fig.2 The process of dither stabilizing frequency
The horizontal axis in Fig. 2 represents the driving
voltage on the PZT. The upper part of Fig. 2 shows the
relationship between the laser gyroscope working point
and the light intensity modulated signal, and the lower
part shows the relationship between the laser gyroscope
working point and the driving voltage signal after demodu-
lation, which is also called frequency discrimination
curve. When the initial laser frequency is located on the
left side of the center frequency (V, < ) the light in-
tensity modulated signal is in phase with the voltage mod-
ulation signal ,the coherent demodulation is positive , and
the average value of light intensity output is /;. When loca-
ted on the right (V, >V,), the light intensity modulated
signal is in reversed phase with the voltage modulation
signal,the coherent demodulation is negative , and the
average value of light intensity output is Iz. The process
of controlling dither is to real-time determine the side of
the center point on which the gyroscope feedback light in-
tensity signal I is. If it is located on the left side, then
the maximum T and the minimum I; of light intensity
appear in the process of applying the dither signal , and
the relationship that I, > I, must be satisfied; if it is
nal is used as the feedback signal of the control system ,
the error signal will be coupled on the DC component,
and due to the influence of mechanical dither control
module, the coupled AC signal will reduce the precision
of the control 鲆Stem〔问〕. Therefore, the accuracy of con-
trolling cavity length will be effectively improved by inde-
pendently controlling the AC/DC components of laser gy-
roscope light output signal, increasing the control of the
AC component, and thus reducing the source of error.
located on the right side, then the relationship that 7, <
T must be satisfied; if it is located on the center, then
the relationship that I = I, must be satisfied. There-
fore, the realization of controlling dither is to make the
differential values (I, ―1I_ ) of the light intensity modu-
lated signal close to zero.
2 The system hardware design
The schematic diagram of overall design scheme of
cavity length control circuit is shown in Fig. 3,which is
mainly composed of power AC/DC component operation
circuit, RMS, low-pass filter, A/D converter, MCU
( MSP430F149 ) , D/A converter and the PZT driving
circuit.
tem software design
In this paper, the software design of cavity length
control system is mainly to implement the DC component
and AC component control, and the controlling of DC
component is the emphasis.
3.1 The design of controlling DC component
The resonator cavity length control of the laser gyro-
scope is to make the longitudinal mode frequency stable at
the work center frequency, which means to make the DC
component of light intensity modulated signal stable to the
maximum extent. Therefore, to realize the control of laser
gyroscope cavity length, the maximum value of the DC
component of the light intensity modulated signal must be
obtained first, that is, Mode-sweep needs to be comple-
ted. The so called Mode-sweep is to increase the PZT
driving voltage first by a certain step size and then reduce
it. The maximum value of the DC component of the light
intensity modulated signals is collected in this process ,
and the value of the PZT driving voltage is recorded sim-
ultaneously. The program flow chart of MCU Mode-sweep
process is shown in Fig. 4. In general, in the process of
increasing the driving voltage, the DC component maxi-
mum value 7 of light intensity modulated signal can be
obtained,and the value of driving voltage is recorded at
this time. When the driving voltage increases to the maxi-
mum value of 250 V it gradually decreases to the value
when the value of DC component is .
Fig.4 The program flow chart of Mode-sweep
Through Mode-sweep program, the PZT driving volt-
age value is obtained when the DC component of the light
intensity modulated signals is the maximum. According to
the principle of controlling dither cavity length , Positive
dither voltage + AV is superimposed on the f .,: and the
mean value is obtained by collecting more positive dith-
er voltages; at the same time, negative dither voltage
~ AV is superimposed on the V,,,, and the mean value J,
is collected by collecting more negative dither voltages,
By calculating the deviation 万 = I, - 卫 ,whether or not
to meet the control requirements is determined. Then the
current control parameter is maintained, or the PZT
driving voltage value is re-adjusted until the deviation E
is within the required range. The program flow chart of
controlling DC component is shown in Fig. 5.
Fig.5 The program flow chart of controlling DC component
3. 2 The design of controlling AC component
The AC component of the light intensity signal is
mainly generated by the dither frequency of the mechani-
cal dither applied to the control module. Therefore, the
impact of the AC component should be minimized in the
process of controlling the cavity length, which requires
the AC component to be always controlled at the mini-
mum. Through the RMS circuit on the hardware, the AC
component is converted into DC component and then into
a digital value by using an AD converter, and the DC
component of the light intensity signal is used as the input
of the MCU to adjust the system. Fig. 6 is the control pro-
gram flow chart of the AC component. As to the AC com-
ponent, the dither control method is also adopted. Once
the laser gyroscope works in a stable state, the mechani-
cal dither frequency exerted on it will be certain,so the
control method of successive approximation is adopted.
Fig.6 The program flow chart of controlling AC component
4 Performance test and analysis
4.1 The light intensity Mode-sweep curve
Light intensity Mode-sweep curve is not only an im-
portant benchmark of controlling laser gyroscope cavity
length,but also one of the bases to decide whether laser
gyroscope performance is good or not. Fig.7 is the Mode-
sweep curve of a laser gyroscope under the working cur-
rent of 0. 7 mA, and Mode-sweep driving voltage range is
0―250 V.
Fig.7 The light intensity Mode-sweep curve
As can be seen from Fig. 7,within the driving volt-
age range of 0 一 250 V, there are five longitudinal
modes. The symmetry of light intensity curve is good,
and the repeatability is consistent. This light intensity
curve can be used as the benchmark of controlling cavity
length.
4.2 Cavity length control system performance test
In the laser gyroscope cavity length control process ,
the maximum value of light intensity is first obtained by
made-sweep,and then the light intensity value is stabi-
lized to the maximum extent by controlling the DC compo-
nent. Fig.8 is the cavity length control process of a laser
gyroscope.
Wl Th et ee Se TG 技
Fig.8 The control process of cavity length
As can be seen from Fig. 8, the selection process of
the maximum point is about 1 s. When the cavity length
is stable, the value of the light intensity is 5.143 2 V ,
and the driving voltage is 125.5 V. The dither voltage
amplitude value superimposed on the driving voltage is 2
V, and the dither frequency is 114 Hz, as shown in Fig.
9.
Fig.9 The dither signal superimposed on the driving
voltage
In the actual test, the dither voltage amplitude value
is increased from 1 V to 5 V. and it is found that 2 V is
the most appropriate and the light intensity value reaches
the maximum. It is also found from the actual test that
different frequencies have a significant impact on the con-
trol accuracy, and the test results are shown in Tab. 1.
From the actual test result, it can be seen that when
the dither amplitude is 2 V and the dither frequency is
114 Hz, the control of cavity length can achieve the best
Tab.1 The test records of different dither frequencies
effect. Because the control system is a hysteretic system,
the rapid change of dither frequency making piezoelectric
ceramic does not fully respond to the change of dither
voltage, leading to the minimum light intensity in control
and regulation process, that is, by applying dither, a
fluctuated frequency will be superimposed on the light in-
tensity signal, which is the same as dither frequency. So
if the dither frequency of the jitter is too small, it is diffi-
cult to filter when the laser gyroscope signal is processed.
Generally, when the laser gyroscope is processing signal,
the cut-off frequency of a low-pass filter is about 45 Hz―
100 Hz, so the selected 114 Hz dither frequency will nei-
ther affect the accuracy of controlling cavity length, nor
bring trouble to laser gyroscope signal processing or affect
the measurement accuracy of laser gyroscope.
4.3 Laser gyroscope system test
The dither amplitude is set as 2 V and the frequency as
114 Hz. The designed cavity length control system is com-
bined with the dither control module and the signal process-
ing module,and the real-time data acquisition is executed
by the host computer. According to the laser gyroscope ac-
curacy measurement standards'? | the accuracy is calculated
after the laser gyroscope has worked for 0. 5 h. The calcula-
tion results are shown in Tab.2. No.1, No.2, and No.3 re-
present the data measured in three different periods, respec-
tively. It can be seen that, the designed cavity length con-
trol system of laser gyroscope has good stability, and the
precision is superior to the requirement of 1°<h?".
Tab.2 The drift mean value and mean square value
5 Conclusion
A frequency stabilization control scheme was put for-
ward. In the hardware design, the AC/DC components of
laser gyroscope light output was independently controlled,
obtaining a higher control accuracy. In the software de-
sign, the AC and DC components control program were
designed. The performance test on each key part and the
whole system shows that the accuracy can reach 0.4°-
h?', and the designed cavity length control system can
meet the requirement of controlling steady frequency.
