航天器主要采用什么电源？
航天器上许多电子设备,所以,电源对于航天器来讲是必不可少的,电源功率的大小和寿命对航天器的性能有至关重要的影响。现代航天器在与火箭分离后首先要展开太阳电池翼,否则难以正常工作运行。在实际运行过程中,也常常出现因电源故障而导致航天器报废。因此,航天器电源至关重要。

航天器电源 电源功率 运行过程 太阳电池翼 电子设备 电源故障 火箭  

Research in nanoscience is of great importance for both
technological implications and for the fundamental explo-
ration of the properties of nanostructures. Of particu-
lar interest is the study of spin dynamics, which hopes
to explore a number of interesting physical phenomena
and potential applications in spintronic devices.1=5! In
this context, the spin-orbit coupling effect in low dimen-
sional semiconductor heterostructures has attracted a con-
siderable theoretical and experimental attention.[2:6-16]
There are mainly two types of SO interactions in semi-
conductor heterostructures. One is the Dresselhaus SO
interaction induced by the bulk inversion asymmetry of
the lattice structure (BIA),!”] the other is the Rashba
,S0 interaction induced by the structure inversion asym-
"metry (SIA) of the confining potential.['? Recently, Es-
merindo Bernardes, et al. found a new SO interaction in
GalnAs/GalnAs QWs, which is nonzero even in symmet-
ric heterostructures. [19-21]
Since the SO parameters decrease as the band gap in-
creases, one can expect very small SO parameters in wide
band-gap materials, such as Ga(Al)N. However, in sys-
tems with asymmetric potential, both the Rashba and
the intersubband SO parameters are related to the elec-
tric field.[4,18,22~23] Moreover, a high internal electric field
generates at the heterointerface of AlxGal_rxN/GaN het-
erostructures, as a result of the large conduction band dis-
continuity and the strong piezoelectric and spontaneous
polarization effect. Therefore the SO parameters in III-
nitride semiconductor heterostructures grown along the
c-axis is considerable and could be greatly engineered by
the polarized field.[?:24―26]
* 卫 -mail: mingli245@163.com
? 2013 Chinese Physical Society and IOP Publishing Ltd
In previous work, the characteristic equation is pro-
jected into the subspace of the conduction band,and a
general expression for the SO parameters are obtained,
including the Rashba SO parameter for the first two
subbands (al,a2}〗and the intersubband SO parameter
(mua).[27-28] It is found that the SO parameters in the
Alp 5GapsN/GaN QW can be modulated by the well
thickness[27] and gate voltage.[28] What’s more, compared
with the Rashba SO parameters, the intersubband SO pa-
rameter is of the same order of magnitude.
However, because of the Piezoelectric and Spontaneous
polarization, the Al mole fraction of the barrier has more
considerable impact on the polarized electric field in the
well, the confined energy, the band gap, and the spatial
distribution of electrons. Therefore, we expect the SO
parameters can be greatly modulated by the Al content
of the barrier. In this paper, we explore the factors con-
tributing to the SO parameters for QWs and how they
vary as a function of x.
2 Theory and Model
By eliminating the three valence band components of
the envelope functions, the eight-band Kane Hamiltonian
is projected into the 2 x 2 conduction band spacel23―24
and the SO parameter in QWs with two subbands (v and
v') can be written as[9,19,21,27 一 28]
Nov = ―PLP[?,{0)@4 (0)(Bw 一 Bi)
= ?4(L)?w (L)(Bw ― Br)
十 (u|BrFr|y)r 十 (u|BmwFty|ly)m
+ (olBRFRjy)R] , (1)
http://www.iop.org/EJ/journal/ctp http://ctp.itp.ac.cn
ergy level su and the envelope function ?, are determined
potential, and F' = (1/q)(8V/9z) is the space-dependent
electric field. ?,(0) and ?,(L) denote the amplitude of
Table 1 Parameters of AlzGial-_zN/GaN QWs.
Effective mass along c axis (mp)
Static dielectric constant (eg)
Conduction band offset (meV)
3 Results and Discussion
In this section, the SO parameters in Alz:Gal_zN/GaN
discussed quantitatively. We adopt the material parame-
m(z) = 0.22 十 0.26z
er 一 10.4 ― 0.3z
AE; 一 19002
C13 二 103 + 52, C33 一 405 一 32
Moreover, the magnitude of the electric field around the
As can be seen from Eq. (1), five terms contribute to
they depend on the amplitude of the first two envelope
functions at the hetercinterface. The third and the fifth
terms denote contributions of the left and right barrier
the first two subbands.
Figures 2(a) and 2(c) show the envelope functions and
the average positions of electrons taking up the frst sub-
band of Al,Ga;_,N/GaN QWs. As z increases, the abil-
ity of the QW to confine electrons becomes stronger with
the elevation of the right barrier. Then the peak of the
envelope function moves towards the left heterointerface,
and the envelope function becomes less expanded. So the
average position of electrons occupying the first subband
moves gradually to the left of the QW.
the average position ofelectrons occupying the second sub-
band in AlxGal-zN/GaN QWs. Because of the strong
built-in electric field, the higher excited states may be
squeezed outside of the well region. We can see clearly in
ist. That is to say, when 2 decreases to a certain value, the
potential barrier becomes too low to confine electrons oc-
cupying the second subband. Therefore, for a given sheet
carrier concentration, there are at least two confined states
when the Al content of the barrier exceeds a critical value
2min. So we assume x > 0.3 when discussing quantities
about the second subband. As z increases, the envelope
function for the second subband becomes less expanded,
and the peak, especially the valley of it moves towards the
left heterointerface. Therefore, when 2 > 0.4, the average
position of electrons occupying the second subband also
decreases with Q.
Fig. 4 Al-content-dependent intersubband SO parameter.
The well「s contribution is the largest, and next comes the
contribution from the heterointerface, while the barrier’s
contribution is relatively small and varies slowly. With
increasing z, the expansion region of the envelope func-
,tion decreases, the magnitude of the envelope function at
the left heterointerface increases, while that of the right
heterointerface decreases. So the contribution from the
heterinterface increases with x. What is more, the elec-
tric field in the well increases with z, especially the electric
field around the left heterointerface is much stronger than
that of the right heterointerface. The decrease of the ex-
pansion region of the envelope functions further leads to
the increase of the average electric field in the well. So
the well’s contribution increases with z. Since the proba-
bility of electrons located in the barrier is relatively small,
the barrier’s contribution is small and varies slowly with
z. Figure 3(b) illustrates the Rashba parameter for the
second subband (a2 一 ya2).When Z is larger than 0.3,
just as al, the magnitude of ay also increases with , and
the contribution of the well is the largest, the lesser con-
tribution is from the heterointerface, and the contribution
of the barrier is the smallest and varies slowly. However,
compared with a, as is smaller, because the envelope
functions of the higher subbands are more expanded and
the corresponding average electric field is weaker.
Figure 4 shows the intersubband SO parameter (712).
When z > 0.3, the magnitude of 7,2 increases slowly,
and the main contribution is from the heterointerface, the
lesser contribution with the opposite sign is from the well,
and the smallest contribution is from the barrier. which
varies slowly with 2. According to Eq. (1), the envelope
functions of the first two subbands and their overlap are
crucial to Vl2. Just as stated above, as “ increases, the
expansion region of the envelope function for the second
subband decreases, the amplitude of the envelope function
at the left heterointerface increases, and the average elec-
tric field in the well increases. Therefore, contributions to
12 from the well and the heterointerface increase simul-
taneously with z, but the heterointerface contribution is
canceled to a certain degree by the well contribution for
opposite signs. However, the heterointerface contribution
increase a bit more rapidly. So 712 increase slowly with X.
We can see from Eq. (2) that 3 and B; are related to
the confined energy level, the band gap, and V, both of
which depend on the Al composition of the barrier. How-
ever, their effects on the variation of the SO parameters
as a function of 2 are not obvious, which indicates the
decrease of the expansion region of the envelope functions
and the increase of the electric field in the well are the
two main factors contributing to the increase of the SO
parameters.
In all, the Rashba SO parameters for the first two sub-
bands and the intersubband SO parameter increase with
Z as a whole. However, compared with the Rashba SO pa-
rameters, the intersubband SO parameter is basically of
the same order, but relatively small and increases much
more slowly with x.
Compared with the effect of the well thickness and the
gate voltage on the SO parameters in Refs. [27] and [28],
respectively, the Rashba SO parameters can be more
greatly modulated by the Al content of the barrier, while
the intersubband SO parameter is also relatively small and
varies slowly with z. Moreover, the SO parameters in the
AlGaN/GaN QW are at least one order smaller than that
of AllnAs/GalnAs Qws calculated in Ref. [19], since the
band gap of GaN is much larger.
4 Conclusions
In summary, we obtain considerable SO parameters in
N; = 120x1011/cm2. The Rashba parameters for the first
two subbands and the intersubband SO parameter in Al;
Ctal_rx N/GaN QWs increase with 2 as a whole. We find
that the decrease of the expansion region of the envelope
functions and the increase of the polarized electric field in
the well are the two major contributions. However, com-
pared with the Rashba parameters, the intersubband SO
parameter is basically of the same order, but a bit smaller
and increases more slowly with x. These results show the
SO parameters, especially the Rashba parameters can be
modulated by the Al mole fraction of the barrier, which
may be helpful to the spin manipulation of III-nitride low-
dimensional heterostructures.
