论述环氧树脂基复合材料直升机部件的性能
社会在不断发展。科技在不断进步，新的材料也不断在科技中创新出来，先进的树脂基复合材料的物质特性，在我国航空材料中占据重要位置，代替了较重的金属材料，用在直升机很多的承受力的结构部件上。本文就是对环氧树脂基复合材料直升机部件的性能进行分析。

复合材料 直升机部件 性能  

0 Introduction
Study on optical fiber sensor has taken the center
stage due to its well-know resistance to electromagnetic in-
terference , small size, temperature tolerance, reusability,
and long transmission distance. Application of high-tem-
@ Received date:2013-03-22 ; Revised date:2013-04-16.
Foundation Item : National Natural Science Foundation of China
Biography : MENG Song-he (1969 一 ) ,male ,professor,speciality : thermal protection systems simulation and evaluation. E-mail: meng-
sh@ hit. edu. cn
Corresponding author: XIE Wei-hua( 1978 一 ) ,male,associate
perature optical fiber sensors has demonstrated its great
potential in the area of aerospace. The thermal structural
components , especially used in solid rocket motor and the
hypersonic aircraft nose cone, require high temperature
tolerance , smaller weight and size of the sensors due to
(No. 10902030,91016029,11272107).
professor, speciality : thermal protection systems simulation and evalua-
―701―
Sensor (FGS) under high-temperature environment re-
mains a technical problem. NASA and the U. S,Depart-
ment of Defense have carried out a series of programs ( in-
cluding Airframe Health Monitoring and Materials and
Structures Program) to support the development of high-
temperature optical fiber measurement technology. The
most-know institutions are Dayton Research Center, NASA
$ Langley Research Center , United States Air Force Base,
Fiber & Electro-Optics Research Center, Fiber and Sensor
Technologies Inc. ,and Lambda Instruments Inc. Sweden,
Canada and Morocco also joined the United States to carry
out research on high-temperature optical fiber technolo-
g}′〔l，:缪，5〕_
DUnder the guidance of test principle for high-temper-
ature fiber sensor, the studies of high temperature fiber
sensor fall into two major categories. One is intrinsic opti-
cal fiber grating sensor, which is usually made of quartz
optical fiber material with test range below 1 000 匕 16-71.
Another is extrinsic optical fiber Fabry-Pérot sensor, which
is generally made of sapphire fiber materials with test tem-
perature above 1 000 化 and 1 650 °C at its highest'? -101 ,
Despite its high test temperature , the raw material of sap-
phire fiber optic sensor is considerably expensive.
The advantage of the quartz FCS is to test the tem-
perature and strain simultaneously. Although quartz mate-
rial itself can tolerate temperature of 1 000 °C, the con-
nection technology with the actual hot structure has been
plaguing its practical applications. From the practical
point, with the quartz optical fiber sensor,550 °C is the
maximum temperature for simultaneous test of structural
temperature and strain[il1 ,
The study uses a chemical composition FCS to exam-
ine the problems arising during sensor 「s application in
ogy for high temperature fiber grating. It also determines
the best choice of adhesive agent and adhesive technique
through comparison, as well as completed the temperature
and strain monitoring tests under 700 °C environment.
―702一
1 High-temperature connecting method
In 2008 ,NASA 5 Defense Report had classified sen-
sors according to the difficulty of installation, difficulty of
application, and the operating temperature, pointing out
that the operating temperature of quartz optical fber and
sapphire optical fiber sensor is relatively high while the
application difficulty rests at middle. However, they are
both difficult to be installed due to the brittleness of the
optical fiber material.
In applications, fiber grating is divided into two
types. One type shall be firstly armored to form sealed
protection, and then the armored item will be bonded with
the to-be-tested structure. Another type would be directly
bonded with the structure surface through gluing or plasma
thermal spray. Among these methods, gluing is the most
simple and practical.
The high-temperature treatment makes fiber grating
brittle, therefore its necessary to adopt simple bonding
technique when using high-temperature adhesive on fiber
gratings to reduce potential damage. Ideal high-tempera-
ture adhesive is characterized by good liquidity before cu-
ring and no crack or other defects under high temperature
environment after curing. Before experiment on bonded fi-
ber grating,the grating shall be heated to 800 °C and sub-
adhesive HS-176. However, because of the poor perform-
ance of the adhesive agent at higher temperature , cracks
appear in the adhesive surface which combine by the com-
plex curing way, may easily cause damage to fiber grating.
Therefore more adhesives come under scrutiny to meet the
needs.
1.1 Choosing high-temperature grating adhesive a-
gent
The excellent high temperature resistance at about
2 000 °C, the resistance to oxidation and the non-ablative
characteristics of ultra-high temperature ceramics( UHTC)
make it a preferred choice for making engine and hot end
components of hypersonic aircraft. The present study
places high requirement on adhesive agent to form ideal
adhesion with the UHTC ,in order to ensure the grating not
to be damaged by the cured adhesive and make good paste
on the surface of the structure for generation of accurate
strain response. To verify the applicability of various high-
temperature adhesive agent, and to ensure the efficacy of
fiber-specimen bonding formed through the agent, the
study firstly experiments on the property of different agents
with bonding simulation.
Put prepared four kinds of high-temperature adhesive
respectively in four syringes, and select the same UHTC
surface. Squeeze the adhesive out on the structural sur-
face,forming 1.5 cm to 2.0 cm-long bar enough to cover
Table 1 Evaluation of adhesive agent after 800 °C treatment
茎e一辜彗菖】亘三重二言工茎菩l三亡音】亡亡寡二茎上二三t薹亘l】薹董菖置薹豆I…言I艺lh亡言l皇T董`二亘ur嫡c二亘菅亘量o二二=
The test results indicate that the last two types of ad-
hesive demonstrate better performance,However , because
of the poor fluidity of Ultra Temp 904 zirconium oxide ad-
hesive ,before curing and the operation, trouble hence may
come ,the study chooses Respond 989 ,the high purity alu-
mina ceramic bonding agent of COTRONICS. The main
component of this adhesive is a high purity alumina ce-
ramic which only needs curing at room temperature, not
only greatly reducing the difficulty of fiber grating curing,
but also avoiding the damage caused by high-temperature
curing process. Its highest working temperature can reach
1. 2 High-temperature optical fiber connecting
method
Discussion will be made on the bonding technique
for the selected adhesive agent Respond 989FS in order
to determine the appropriate way of bonding and curing.
Bonding methods shall observe the following standards.
(1) As the intermediate between specimens and fi-
ber grating, adhesive agent shall be in good contact with
the specimen to ensure bonding strength and avoid de-
gumming.
(2) Adhesive shall have full contact with fiber grat-
ing to avoid unsynchronized deformation, the likelihood of
which is caused by fiber grating “「s smooth surface and
small size. The full contact is also important for protec-
the length and width of the fiber. Put the cured agents in-
to the muffle furnace and heat them from room tempera-
ture to 800 TC. Maintain the bars at 800 LY for 30 mi-
nutes and then cool them to room temperature. Observe
the bonding state after high-temperature treatment as
shown in Table 1.
ting the fber grating from being damaged by the outside
force.
(3) Adhesive agent needs to be smeared uniformly,
so as to avoid fracture of the bar under high temperature ,
which will damage fiber grating.
(4) Adhesion process shall be simple to minimize
possibility of potential damage.
We need sandblasting process (3* type of sand) for
UHTC thermal parts before adhesion ,which will increase
the contact area and improve the bonding effect. Clear
on the surface. Smear the adhesive on the specimen and
dry it in the air for about 4 hours to reach the ideal bond-
ing strength.
2 Evaluation of high-temperature hot struc-
ture
2.1 High-temperature test device
The specimen for hot structure test is L-shape UHTC
part. Three fiber gratings and three thermocouples are
placed on the horizontal part of the specimen, one thermo-
couple monitoring one fber grating correspondingly , with
the purpose of decoupling the wavelength signal. The ex-
periment starts with the bonding of fiber grating and the
specimen. After curing,bond one thermocouple to one fi-
―703―
ceramic, which is thin and a good heat conductor, the
temperature measured by each thermocouple can accu-
rately represent the temperature load at that specific loca-
tion of the fiber grating. The sensor connection and layout
are shown in Fig. 1.
laser for heating the bottom area of the vertical section of
the test pieces in Fig. 1 with heat spot of 420 mm and
lens-specimen distance of 1 500 mm. Due to high thermal
conductivity of the UHTC ,the heat will reach the bottom
rapidly. The test adopts fiber grating demodulator for
three-way fiber-coupled signal acquisition, and uses multi-
ple temperature signal acquisition instrument recording
thermocouple temperature response.
2.2 High-temperature test
Connect thermocouple and fiber optic sensor to data
acquisition equipment respectively. Before heating, the
structural surface temperature of the three thermocouples
are 24 °C. The reflection wavelengths of three optical fi-
bers are 1 540. 177,1 539. 982 and 1 539. 882 nm re-
spectively. During the heating, adjust the power of laser
heating equipment, and strengthen the power by 20 W
each time. Through step-by-step heating ,record the tem-
perature acquired by each thermocouple and the wave-
length signals by fiber grating under different laser power.
after reaching 417 °C, and the other two disappeared
when temperature were above 700 °C. The wavelengths
corresponding to the each temperature point are shown in
Fig. 2.
Fig.2 Wavelength versus temperature for
fiber Bragg grating sensors
3 Result analysis
Grating reflection wavelength change is mainly af-
fected by two factors ,temperature and the deformation of
the structure. The measured signal in this experiment is
the superposition of both, which can be expressed in for-
mula (1).
AAs = AA; + AA, (1)
Where AA; is the variation measured by grating signal ;
AAr,AA。 are respectively the wavelength variations
caused by the temperature and strain.
Temperatures influence on the reflected wavelength
can be expressed as temperature sensitivity coefficient, as
shown in formula (2). Temperature change caused by
thermal expansion will change the grating period, and at
the same time thermo-optical effect leads to the change of
the effective refractive index of the fiber.
Where ?,{ represent respectively thermal expansion co-
efficient and thermo-optical coefficient of the fiber Bragg
grating.
The pre-test measurement on the temperature sensi-
tivity coefficient of the bare grating shows that the temper-
ature has a good linear relationship with the reflection
wavelength of bare grating, with temperature sensitive co-
efficient being 0.009 6 nm/C.
The expansion and elastic-optic effect conduced by
strain can lead to the change of grating period and effec-
tive refractive index,as shown in formula(3).
Ary = K:As = (1 - P.)AsAe (3)
