连锁董事与社会责任报告披露：基于组织间模仿视角
基于连锁董事的信息传递作用，从组织间模仿视角研究企业间的连锁董事关系时企业社会责任报告自愿披露决策的影响，并进一步研究连锁董事在目标公司的董事类型以及目标公司与连锁公司之间的地域特征对连锁董事与企业社会责任报告自愿披露关系的调节作用。利用2009年至2013年中国沪、深两市A股上市公司存在连锁董事关系的企业7522对年度样本数据，通过Probit回归方法进行实证分析。研究结果表明，企业社会责任报告的自愿披露决策存在组织间模仿行为，即连锁公司之前的社会责任报告披露行为对目标公司之后的社会责任报告披露行为有显著的正向影响，当连锁董事在目标公司任职执行董事时或当目标公司和连锁公司属于同一地域时．这种正向影响更为显著，连锁董事对于企业社会责任报告的自愿披露决策有重要影响。

连锁董事 社会责任报告披露 组织间模仿 环境不确定 信息传递  

1 Introduction
Future solar system exploration is filled with
missions that require landing spacecraft on planets,
moons, comets, and asteroids. Consider the scenario
where an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is arranged to
build an internal representation of the location of features
in an environment. In this scenario, however, the UAV is
not equipped with its own self-localisation aid such as a
global position system (GPS) receiver and does not have
any priori terrain data information to localize. The
problem is compounded by the requirement for the UAV
to have information regarding its velocity and attitude in
order to stabilize its motion. In many applications, the
vehicle uses an inertial navigation system (INS).
However, the eventual growth of localization errors due
to the dead-reckoning nature of the INS limits the time
that the vehicle can operate. So, the paradigm known as
simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is put
forward [1], in which the vehicle pose and feature map
are estimated simultaneously using only relative
observations of the locations of features with respect to
the vehicle.
In practice, a filter for recursive state estimation is
employed to correct the system errors using sensor
aiding information. In designing the filter, the
observability analysis is necessary because observability
Foundation item: Project(2020203) supported by the Weapon Research Foundation, China
Received date: 2012--09~02; Accepted date: 2013-05-20
Corresponding author: FANG Qiang, PhD; Tel: +86―15116265267; E-mail: kobefang2010@163.com
determines the existence of solutions and sets a lower
limit on the estimation error.
In control system, the study of the observability of
such estimation processes is relevant for predicting the
convergence or for taking a decision where to go in order
to guarantee the localization of the platform.
Observability analysis has had a long history in
studying aid-INS. In Ref. [2], a new method of
observability analysis for piece-wise constant linear
systems (PWCS) was introduced and applied to analyzing
the observability of an aided-INS system during in-flight
alignment. The PWCS method was recently used to
study the observability of GPS-aided INS system [3-5]
during sensor platform maneuvers, and under special
maneuvers, some system states become observable. In
Ref. [6], the global observability definition was first
introduced and used to investigate the specific problem
of the INS/GPS integration system, in which the
relationship between the system observability and the
vehicle movements were comprehensively and profoundly
revealed in a simple and intuitive manner, and in addition,
a sufficient condition for the global observability was
presented. Based on the idea of nonlinear global
observability analysis in Refs. [7-10], the observability
of strapdown INS alignment was investigated. A clearer
picture of the observability problem was provided from a
global perspective, and shedding light on previous
theoretical results on strapdown INS alignment that were
J. Cent. South Univ. (2013) 20: 2432-2439
not comprehensive or consistent. In Ref. [11], for the
first time, the observability of the nonlinear system
Lie derivatives. To estimate the IMU-camera
the closed-form solutions for the modes were proposed.
unobservable state and how the unobservability was
related to the vehicle motions,and used information
SLAM system when the dimension and variables are
changed with new features, which is the fact in most
dimension and variables of SLAM system keep steady,
then the PWCS theory can be used to analyze the local or
total observability, and the properties of system
observability under maneuver can also be analyzed.
2 Error model
The INS error equation and the SLAM observation
model in continuous time can be found in Ref. [17].
2.1 INS error equation
where
2433
vector in the n-frame.
2.2 SLAM observation model
Pp, =HX +v(0) )
where
navigation frame.
3 Continuous PWCS observability
The continuous PWCS observability method was
introduced in Ref. [2], and it is briefly shown here for
clarity.
Consider the PWCS model:
Then, the total observability matrix (TOM) is
If Q(￥) has rank x,the system defined above is
totally observable.
4 SLAM observability
In this section, the observability of SLAM system
was investigated. Note that in the continuous PWCS
model, the dimensions of process and measurement
models are fixed and the variables are the same all the
time. However, in the SLAM system, different features
may be detected during different segments. Moreover,
the former features may not be detected in the next
segment, which is the fact in most SLAM system. So, the
dimension and the variables of the system would change
during the segments. If just concerning the local
observability of SLAM, PWCS method can be used
directly, while if considering the total observability of
SLAM, directly using the PWCS method might be wrong
and some changes of the SLAM system should be made.
Consider the next two systems:
It is obvious that the two systems are equivalent,
that is
页台加
So, the observabilities of the two systems are
equivalent, that is
Assume that N; features were detected inside the
segment j, and times of the repeated features is M. The
time-line of the measurements is shown in Fig. 1.
Segment 1 “Segment 2 Segment 3
广1
can be augmented as follows:
where
and if feature c is detected in the segment i, a.=1;
otherwise, Qc0.
Now, the system model of SLAM has been
reorganized, and the system’s dimension and variables
keep steady during the total time [fo, #]. Then, it is able
to use the PWCS observability method to analyze the
Similar with Ref. [2], the TOM of SLAM system
18
Q(k)=
Substituting Eqs. (9)~(10) to Eq. (12) yields
Q(k)=
002)
Further, simplify the observation problem by
assuming the detected features L=2. Then, there might be
four cases, as listed in Table 1.
Case No. Segment 1 Segment 2
1 Feature 1 Feature 2
2 Feature 1 Features 1, 2
3 Features 1, 2 Feature 2
4 Features 1, 2 Features 1, 2
during Segment 1 is
Given that f" #0, the LOM in Eq. (15) has a rank
of eight where the total number of estimated states is
twelve. Only the velocity y“is observable, and the other
states, such as positions p”, m" and attitude y” are not
observable.
After two segments, the TOM of the system is
has a rank of twelve, where the total number of estimated
states is fifteen, so the system is not observable during
the time interval [f, b],and the observable modes are
M ,yy7,P 一 〉and m ―m;.
Similarly, the observability of other three cases can
be analyzed, and the results of cases 1 and 4 are the same
as in Ref. [16].
In general, observability of any case can be
analyzed using Eq. (13), if considering one segment, then
the TOM in Eq. (13) is reduced to the LOM case.
However, regardless of the number of features added to
the map or any extra time segment, the number of
unobservable states is never less than three.
6 Covariance simulation results
Some simulations were implemented on a computer
with Pentium? Dual-Core CPU and 2 GB memory. The
code was programmed using MATLAB 2009.
A low-cost IMU was simulated with a vision as the
range, bearing and elevation sensor. The simulation
parameters are listed in Table 2.
Table 2 Parameters used in simulation
Sensor Specification Value
Sampling rate/Hz 100
IMU Acceleration noise/(m-s 2) 0.01
Gyro noise/((°)s ) 0.1
Frame rate/Hz 25
Elevation noise/(°) 0.1
The major motivation for the observability analysis
is the correspondence between this analysis and the
estimability of the system. The estimability of the UAV
system is checked using a covariance simulation, as it
predicts the performance of a Kalman filter designed for
the system.
Assuming that all the errors in the process and
sensor were Gaussian white noises, numerical simulation
results on the standard deviation (STD) of errors were
provided using extended Kalman filter (EKF). In the
simulation, the covariance simulation was carried out in
a piece-wise constant acceleration trajectory, as listed in
Table 3.
The trajectory consisted of segements 1, 2 of Table
3 and in this order. Each segment was run for 50 s.
The assumed initial navigation errors are
summarized in Table 4.
Table 3 Segments of accelerations
1 0 0 8 (9.8)
2 0 0.1 E (9.8)
Table 4 Initial navigation errors
Parameter Specification Value
p/m Position (10) [1, 1, 1]
vist) Velocity (10) [1,1,1]
W(o) Attitude (10) [5, 5, 5]
covariance of the features for convenience:
The covariance of the expected feature positions
trajectory than the INS alone trajectory.
Fig. 2 True, INS-alone and INS aided vision estimated vehicle
trajectories
shown in Fig. 3, while the STDs of velocity error
decreased significantly at the beginning in Fig. 4, because
2437
(c) Along z axis
(c) Along z axis
during the whole segments, the vehicle position is not
observable, while its velocity is observable. The STDs of
roll and pitch estimation errors in Fig. 5 decreased
significantly at the beginning. This is because the
horizontal components of unobservable attitude error can
be approximated to the accelerometer bias divided by
gravity. The yaw estimation error during the first 50 s
given in Fig. 6 can be misleading, and decreased during
the second 50 s, because the attitude is observable during
Segment 2.
In Figs. 6 and 7, the two features estimated errors
do not converge to zero, because the two features are
(c) Along z axis
(b) Along y axis; (C) Along z axis
not observable in the system.
Figures 8 and 9 show that the relative position of
the feature to the vehicle and the relative position
between estimated errors of the features converge to zero,
because they are observable in the system.
(b) Along y axis; (C} Along z axis
50-100 s: (a) Along x axis; (b) Along y axis; (c) Along z axis
100 s: (a) Along x axis; (b) Along y axis; (C) Along z axis
7 Conclusions
1) A unified approach for analyzing the
observability of SLAM system is provided. This method
can adapt to find out the observability of any case in the
SLAM system. Regardless of the number of features
added to the map or any extra time segment, the number
of unobservable states is never less than three.
2) Under special maneuver, e.g., changing the
accelerations during the flight, some of the system states
become observable, such as the yaw angle and the
relative position, which is very useful for the SLAM
system design, especial for the determination of the
vehicle action selection.
