锡、镓对铝钛异种合金真空钎焊的影响
在铝硅钎料中加入一定比例的锡和镓元素，具有改善接头组织形态、降低钎料熔点、提高钎料润湿铺展性、提高钎焊接头机械性能的作用，从而有效的改善了铝钛异种合金真空钎焊的工艺性能。

锡 镓 铝钛合金 真空钎焊  

by physical products alone.
As a result, PSSs (product-service systems) [2-4]
which provide value by combining a product and a
service, have gradually been attracting more attention.
To increase the productivity of services, to analyze
developed large-scale and complicated services or to
create new services, a systematic approach to design
services is important. The authors, therefore, have
carried out fundamental research on SE (service
for services from an engineering perspective [5-7].
To build or maintain long-term relationships with
their customers and continue to make a profit, it is
important for a company to provide highly reliable
service. In general, reliability consists of narrow
reliability and maintainability. Narrow reliability is the
ability of a device to operate successfully for a specific
period of time. Maintainability is how quickly and
748 A Method for Structuring Service Failure Factors to Realize Highly Reliable Services
effectively a device can be restored to normal operation
after a failure. It is necessary that we enhance both
narrow reliability and maintainability in order to
improve reliability. As compared to the products
themselves, service relies on a customer’s experience
with goods and the credibility of those goods. This
impression is changed by object design whether a
service designer focuses on narrow reliability or
maintainability. Service negatively influences the
purchasing behavior when customers feel they have
received less than they expected. Therefore, in this
study, we first focused on narrow reliability.
In product design, preventing product failures from
occurring for customers is a widely accepted approach
for improving reliability. FMEA (failure mode and
effects analysis) [8] and FTA (fault tree analysis) [9]
are representative failure analysis methods used in
various fields. However, in the service field, there have
been few discussions on failures as compared to the
product field. Thus, the service field requires an
engineering method against service failures,
Preventing the occurrence of service failures is
important for improving service narrow reliability.
Analysts who work in the service field must identify
factors that could cause service failures and take
appropriate measures against the target failure factor in
advance to prevent service failures.
As compared to those of physical products, service
failure factors and their relationships are varied
because service failures occur due to elements of
uncertainty, such as human factors. Taking measures
against all service failure factors is unrealistic when we
take into account money and time cost [10]. In this
study, our goal is to enable service analysts to identify
the critical failure factors from a number of failure
factors. To achieve this, we have identified complex
failure factors and the relationships among them from
the perspective of the field where the service is
provided, and we have determined the priority number
of failure factors for which appropriate measures
should be taken. In this study, (1) First, we visually
represented the relationship between the failure factors
based on information from analysts in the field where
the service is provided because service failure factors
and the relationships among them depend on the
environment where the service is provided. Moreover,
it is difficult to get quantitative statistics about service
failures since service includes human factors; (2) Next,
we compare this with the structure based on past failure
information to give objectivity to the result of (1); (3)
After this, we identify factors for which we most need
to take measures. This paper proposes the method for
achieving (1). However, analysts who work in the
service field have only limited understanding. In
achieving (1), we can increase the understanding of
analysts, achieving not only direct recognition, but also
indirect recognition. Therefore, we extract service
failure factors from a mathematical framework and
visually represent the relationships between the failure
factors by using a system modeling method.
The rest of this paper consists of the followings:
Section 2 explains service reliability and failure in this
study; Section 3 introduces element techniques that
are applied to the proposed method; Section 4 presents
a method for structuring service failure factors; and
Section 5 demonstrates its application; Section 6
discusses the result of application and Section 7
concludes this paper.
2. Service Reliability and Failure
2.1 Service Reliability
As mentioned above, although service has attracted
attention, service reliability and service failure are not
discussed from an engineering perspective because
service has some unique properties that products do not
have. One of these unique properties is the
synchronization of production and consumption. A
definition of the method for product reliability has
already been established. According to the IEC
(International Electrotechnical Commission),
reliability is defined as “the ability of an item to
perform a required function under given conditions for
A Method for Structuring Service Failure Factors to Realize Highly Reliable Services 749
the item” [11]. The word “item” refers to any part,
component, device, subsystem or functional unit. In
this way, reliability is a concept of temporal quality that
a device will operate appropriately for a specific term
without failure. Reliability is one of five dimensions
(Table 1) that customers use to evaluate the quality of
the provided service. Although customers evaluate
service reliability after they have received the service
offering, they evaluate the other four dimensions
during the service offering. Therefore, a service
provider can try to modify tangibles, responsiveness,
assurance and empathy. However, it is difficult to
modify reliability during the service offering. In
addition, reliability is consistently considered to be the
most important ofthe five dimensions when evaluating
the service quality. Based on this fact, in this study, we
regarded service reliability as a temporal quality
concept equal to the product itself and positioned it as
the main element of service quality.
2.2 Service Failure
Recognition of service failure is different depending
on the research field or objective. For example, the field
of service marketing defines service failure as an
operational miss. The literature in this field includes
many discussions on service recovery and how to
recover from operational misses [13, 14]. In the field of
reliability engineering, Masuda defines service failure
as a service defect [15]. On the other hand, Yokoyama
defines service failure as the dissatisfaction that
customers experience during the service offering [16].
In this study, the fundamental interpretation of
product failure and service failure is essentially the
same, because services, like physical products, are
also artifacts created by humans. Therefore, services
and physical products should not be considered
different things. Consequently, in this study, the
definition of failure by the IEC as mentioned above
has also been applied to service. In this case, the
difference between product failure and service failure
is the way of understanding the word “item” in the
IEC’s definition. Specifically, an “item” refers to a
part of a physical product or system, such as any part,
component, or functional unit. Human beings should
also be included in the term “item” when we focus on
services: a human being is one of the most important
elements since the quality of products depends on
physical behaviors, but the quality of services depends
on activity by human beings. Here, human beings
refers not only to service providers, but also to
customers because if an activity of a customer has a
bad influence on a whole service, in general, this case
is recognized as a failure. In addition, an item’s
functional loss is divided into two components:
functional loss that impacts customer satisfaction and
functional loss that has no negative influence on
customer satisfaction.
Based on the above, this study recognizes a service
failure as the termination of an item’s ability to
perform a function intended by its designer, i.e., its
function as designed to meet a customer reduirement.
The word “item” here refers to human beings,
physical products, systems, etc. that assume the
exertion of a function.
3. Existing Research
3.1 Service Realization Structure
In service engineering,service is defined as an
activity between a service provider and a service
750 A Method for Structuring Service Failure Factors to Realize Highly Reliable Services
receiver that changes the state of the receiver. Namely,
the state of the receiver changes when he or she
receives tangible or intangible items. According to
this definition. a receiver is satisfied when his or her
state changes to a new desirable state. Namely, service
design should be based on the receiver’s change of
state. In a service design, the target receiver’s state is
represented as a set of parameters called RSPs
(receiver state parameters) [5-7].
In service engineering, a sub-model, called a view
model, is proposed to represent a realization structure
for changing an RSP. The functions in a view model
are expressed by FPs (function parameters). FPs
represent target parameters of functions; therefore,
these functions are evaluated by the value of the FPs.
In addition, FPs are associated with APs (attribute
parameters) that represent the attributes of entities.
Entities actualize service functions in the view model
and, therefore, represent not only physical products,
but also facilities, employees and information systems.
Fig. 1 presents an example of a view model that
describes a part of the realization structure of a coffee
shop service. As shown in Fig. 1, the RSP in this case
is a comfortable environment. Functions are described
hierarchically in order to change the RSP. The FP of
each lowest function is associated with an entity. This
model enables designers to determine relationships
between functions and entities.
3.2 The Causes of Service Failure Extraction Template
[17]
Table 2 (the causes of service failure extraction
template) makes it possible to exhaustively extract
factors that occur in service failure by supporting
Comfortable
predictive ability about the causes of service failure. In
general, the number and quality of failure causes
extracted by designers depend on their abilities and
experience. Designers use “knowledge with regard to
failure“ and “estimate ability” when they assume
failure causes [18]. The former is supported by
building for the designer a knowledge database with a
unified form flled with reusable knowledge about
failure. This must be supported by giving the designer a
multidirectional point of view. “The causes of service
failure extraction template“ is a template that provides
a multidirectional point of view so the designer can
exhibit his or her prediction capabilities effectively.
Specifically, this template can apply classifications to
causes such as time, result and cause proposed in the
ontology of faults.
3.3 ISM (Interpretive Structural Modeling)
ISM is astructured method for system modeling that
A Method for Structuring Service Failure Factors to Realize Highly Reliable Services 751
was developed by the Battelle Memorial Institute in the
United States [19]. ISM enables system analysts to
visualize the overview of relationships between the
elements by conducting paired comparisons. The
method consists of three steps. The first step is making
an adjacency matrix by conducting paired comparisons
between the elements based on the recognition of an
analyst in order to identify direct relationships between
elements. Adjacency matrices consist of qualitative
values of only 0 and 1. The 1 expresses that there is a
direct effect between elements: 0 means that there is no
relationship between elements.
The second step is creating a reachability matrix in
order to identify not only direct relations but also
indirect relations between elements. In numerical
formula (1), the reachability matrix is T when an
adjacency matrix is A and the identity matrix is E. The
calculation of numerical formula (1) is based on
Boolean algebra. The last step is making a hierarchical
directed graph by referring to both the adjacency
matrix and the reachability matrix. In this study, it is
necessary to grasp an overview of the relations between
failure factors in order to visualize the analyst’s
understanding of the causation relationship of failure
factors. Therefore, the method is applied to this study
as a visualization method.
(A+E)"#(A+Ef=(A+E)"' =T (UD)
4. A Method for Structuring Service Failure
Factors
4.1 Outline
In this paper, we have identified the relations among
service failure factors based on an analyst’s
understanding,since service failure factors and the
relationships between them depend on the environment
where service is provided. Moreover, it is difficult to
obtain quantitative score statistics regarding service
failure due to the diversity of service configuration. In
order to identify the relationships among service failure
factors based on an analyst’s understanding, a method
for structuring service failure factors is proposed. A
structured method ofISM,an extraction template ofthe
causes service failure, and models are applied to the
proposed method to achieve the objective of this study.
In the product field, the analyst can grasp relationships
between product components based on design drawing.
However, in the service field, it is difficult to grasp the
relationships between components of service since the
design drawing used for products does not exist in the
service field. Another cause of this problem is that
relationships among service failure factors are varied
because service involves many human factors. In
addition, service failure factors vary due to the
service-providing environment. For example, at a
hospital with enriched facilities, the failure of medical
examination machines must be considered. but at a
medical facility without an examination machine, the
failure of medical examination machines hardly needs
to be considered. Thus, in this study, we visually
represent the analyst’s recognition of the causation
between the service failure factors in everv
environment where the service is provided.
Specifically, at first, we identify the service failure and
extract service failure factors by using the models
proposed in service engineering. Next, we visually
represent the relationship between the service failure
factors extracted by structuring service failure factors.
The detail of the proposed method is demonstrated in
the next section.
4.2 A Procedure for Structuring Service Failure Factors
The proposed method consists ofthe following three
steps:
Step 1: identify service failure factors
In this method. service failure factors are identified
by constructing a view model. In this study, a service
failure factor is defined as the termination of an item’s
ability to perform a function intended by its designer,
i.e., the designed function in order to achieve a
customer requirement. In service engineering, “item”
means entity and “function in order to achieve a
customer requirement” corresponds to the lowest
752 A Method for Structuring Service Failure Factors to Realize Highly Reliable Services
function in a view model. Moreover, “the termination
of an item’s ability to perform a function” could be
understood as the negative expression of the function
in a view model. Based on the above, in this study, a
failure is represented by the negative expression of the
bottom function in a view model. Therefore, service
failures are identified by constructing a view model.
Step 2: Extract service failure factors
In this step,service failure factors are extracted
from exhaustive points of view by using the causes of
service failure extraction template as mentioned in
chapter 3.2. Service failure factors must be extracted
through all items to realize exhaustive analysis.
Step 3: Structure causation relationships between
service failure factors by using ISM
In this step,the relationships among identified
service failure factors are represented visually by
structuring service failure factors based on an
analyst’s understanding. The first step is paired
comparison against service failure factors based on the
analyst’s recognition. The extracted factors are placed
in a line and a row of the matrix. If a horizontal factor
causes a vertical factor in the square matrix, “1” is
indicated; otherwise it is “0” in the adjacency matrix.
Through this work against all factors, the adjacency
matrix, which reflects the fragmentary recognition of
the analysts, is constructed. For example, as shown in
Table 3, red 1 means “factor 1 happens by factor 2”.
5. Application
In this chapter, the proposed method is applied to a
nursing-care service. First, in order to identify the
service failure, customer requirements are identified as
Factor n
RSPs. Functions to realize RSPs are described in a
view model. In this application, “live in security” was
derived as a RSP (receiver state parameter). This
identiftcation of an RSP is based on existing studies in
service engineering. In service engineering, a customer
image is built through describing a persona, and the
customer’s action is described as a scenario. An RSP is
identified based on this scenario. At this point, the view
model proposed to represent a realization structure for
changing an RSP was described. As a function of “live
in security“ for anyone needing nursing care,for
example, “provide toilet service” and “support the
elderly in taking a bath” were described. In a nursing
home, employees should have enough information
about customers in order to provide appropriate service.
Moreover, the employee who cares for anyone who
needs limited nursing care cannot grasp well the state
of anyone who fully needs nursing care. To solve these
problems, nursing service has a function of “hand
over” for information exchange. In this application,
“can not hand over” is focused upon as a service failure
because it is very critical for service.
Forty-six service failure factors associated with “can
not hand over“ are extracted by using the template for
extracting service failure factors (Table 4). For
example, “lacking in communication with customers
who need nursing care” is extracted from the viewpoint
of “structural influence” in the template, and “lack of
education for the employee“is extracted from the
viewpoint of “internal cause” in the template.
The numbers in Table 4 accord with Fig. 2. A square
matrix of 46 rows and columns as an adjacency matrix
was made. Then, an adjacency matrix was converted to
A Method for Structuring Service Failure Factors to Realize Highly Reliable Services 753
Table 4 Service failure factors extracted.
a reachability matrix, and a hierarchical directed graph
is constructed (Fig. 3).
The improved algorithm has good acquisition
performance and these values obtained from it can
initialize the tracking loop.
In conclusion, the speed of improved acquisition
doubles that of traditional acquisition. The traditional
algorithm can be instead of improved algorithm.
First, we could improve acquisition method to
increase the GPS receiver sensibility. Second, new
754 A Method for Structuring Service Failure Factors to Realize Highly Reliable Services
Fig. 3 Hierarchical directed graph in this application.
acquisition algorithm needs to be developed for future
signal, such as L2 and L5.
5. Discussion
As shown in Table 4, relationships between many
failure factors are visualized based on the recognition
of the subject. As shown in Fig. 2, factor 7, “failure to
secure time to hand over” is caused by factor 3, “lack
of leadership” and factor 16, “a lower priority duty”.
After this application, we asked a subject about this
result.
Therefore, the proposed method can be said to
reflect the understanding ofthe analyst. In addition, the
proposed method could clarify indirect influence
relationships and express comprehensive causation
relationships between service failure factors. For
example, the subject did not recognize factor 16, “a
lower priority duty“to cause factor 31,“failure to
communicate information”. Namely, we could confirm
that the proposed method could supplement the
analyst’s understanding about failure factors. However,
the method proposed in this paper focuses on visually
representing the understanding of the analyst.
Therefore, it is necessary to maintain legitimacy by
different methods. In the future, we will examine a
method for maintaining legitimacy by unifying the
understanding of plural analysts. Moreover, in order to
identify factors for which measures should be taken,
we will examine a method to decide the priority of
failure measures based on criteria such as cost or
effectiveness in quality engineering. These criteria, in
general, are trade-off relationships [10].
7. Conclusions
The purpose of this paper is to visually represent the
relationship between service failure factors in order to
search for a critical factor. To achieve this purpose, this
paper has proposed a method for structuring service
failure factors. Specifically, we have defined service
failure and identified service failures. In addition.
service failure factors have been extracted and
structured using a structured method of ISM. The
proposed method was applied to a nursing-care service.
The results of this application have made it possible to
visualize the relationships among service failure
factors based on an analyst’s understanding. A future
work will examine a method for maintaining
legitimacy by unifying the understanding of plural
analysts. In addition, in order to identify factors that
should be measured, we will examine a method for
determining the priority of failure measures based on
cost and relationships of the effects necessary to take
measures by referring to a discussion of quality
engineering.
